Source ID: PS-VD-030
Firm: EQT
Title: EQT Capital Markets Event — May 2025
Document Type: investor_presentation
Bias Tag: company-produced
Seed URL: https://eqtgroup.com/news/invitation-to-eqts-capital-markets-event-in-london-on-22-may-2025-value-creation-through-the-lens-of-eqts-portfolio-companies-2025-03-17
Loaded URL: https://eqtgroup.com/news/invitation-to-eqts-capital-markets-event-in-london-on-22-may-2025-value-creation-through-the-lens-of-eqts-portfolio-companies-2025-03-17
Invitation to EQT’s Capital Markets Event in London on 22 May 2025 - Value creation through the lens of EQT’s portfolio companies

On 22 May in London, EQT will host a Capital Markets Event focused on EQT’s ownership model and approach to value creation. The afternoon will feature insights from the EQT funds’ portfolio company CEOs, Chairpersons, Industrial Advisors, and EQT’s leadership team.

The event will explore EQT’s thematic investment focus, its repeatable value creation toolbox and its governance model through the lens of several of its portfolio companies – IFS, Reworld, Nord Anglia, IVC Evidensia, WS Audiology, and Credila Financial Services. In parallel, the portfolio company executives will be available for one-on-one meetings with institutional investors.

The day will be hosted by EQT’s newly appointed CEO, Per Franzén, Conni Jonsson, Founder and Chairperson, the Heads of the Private Capital and Infrastructure business lines, and EQT’s Shareholder Relations team.

Hosted in person at Sky Garden in the City of London, the event will begin with registration and lunch at 12:00 pm BST, followed by an afternoon of presentations and discussions.

Attendance is primarily intended for institutional shareholders, analysts, financial advisors, and media. Please register here to attend.

Olof Svensson, Head of Shareholder Relations, +46 72 989 09 15 EQT Press Office, [email protected] , +46 8 506 55 334

PR - Invitation to EQT's Capital Markets Event in London

About EQT EQT is a purpose-driven global investment organization focused on active ownership strategies. With a Nordic heritage and a global mindset, EQT has a track record of almost three decades of developing companies across multiple geographies, sectors and strategies. EQT has investment strategies covering all phases of a business’ development, from start-up to maturity. EQT has EUR ‌​​269 billion in total assets under management (EUR ‌​​‌136 billion in fee-generating assets under management), within two business segments – Private Capital and Real Assets.

With its roots in the Wallenberg family’s entrepreneurial mindset and philosophy of long-term ownership, EQT is guided by a set of strong values and a distinct corporate culture. EQT manages and advises funds and vehicles that invest across the world with the mission to future-proof companies, generate attractive returns and make a positive impact with everything EQT does.

The EQT AB Group comprises EQT AB (publ) and its direct and indirect subsidiaries, which include general partners and fund managers of EQT funds as well as entities advising EQT funds. EQT has offices in more than 25 countries across Europe, Asia and the Americas and has more than 1,900 employees.

More info: www.eqtgroup.com Follow EQT on LinkedIn , X , YouTube and Instagram

Add your email address below to sign up for our EQT newsletters.