Source ID: PS-VD-067
Firm: Patria Investments (PAX)
Title: Patria Investments Q4 2025 Earnings Call Transcript
Document Type: Earnings Call Transcript
Bias Tag: company-produced
Seed URL: https://seekingalpha.com/article/4865400-patria-investments-limited-pax-q4-2025-earnings-call-transcript
Loaded URL: https://seekingalpha.com/article/4865400-patria-investments-limited-pax-q4-2025-earnings-call-transcript
Patria Investments Limited ( PAX ) Q4 2025 Earnings Call February 3, 2026 9:00 AM EST

Andre Medina - Senior Vice President Alexandre Teixeira de Assumpção Saigh - Co-Founder, CEO, Senior Managing Partner & Director Ana Russo - Partner & CFO Marco Nicola D’Ippolito - Managing Partner & CEO of Global Private Markets Solutions

Craig Siegenthaler - BofA Securities, Research Division Lindsey Marie Shema - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division Ricardo Buchpiguel - Banco BTG Pactual S.A., Research Division Nicolas Vaysselier - BNP Paribas, Research Division Carlos Gomez-Lopez - HSBC Global Investment Research Fernanda Sayão - JPMorgan Chase & Co, Research Division

Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Patria Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. I would now like to hand the conference over to your first speaker today, Andre Medina from Patria Shareholder Relations. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to Patria's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2025 Earnings Call. Speaking today on the call are our Chief Executive Officer, Alex Saigh; and our Chief Financial Officer, Ana Russo; and our Chief Economist, Luis Fernando Lopes, for the Q&A session.

This morning, we issued a press release and earnings presentation detailing our results for the quarter, which you can find posted in the Investor Relations section of our website on Form 6-K filed within the Securities and Exchange Commission. This call is being webcast, and a replay will be available. Before we begin, I'd like to remind everyone that today's call may include forward-looking statements, which are uncertain, do not guarantee future performance and undue reliance should not be placed on them.

Patria assumes no obligation and does not intend to