Source ID: PS-VD-051
Firm: Industry-wide
Title: McKinsey Global Private Markets Review 2026
Document Type: industry_report
Bias Tag: industry-report
Seed URL: https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/private-capital/our-insights/global-private-markets-report
Loaded URL: https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/private-capital/our-insights/global-private-markets-report
In 2025, participants across the private capital ecosystem confronted profound uncertainty. How might economic trends and geopolitical events affect global dealmaking, capital flows, and investment returns? Which models for dealmakers, operators, fundraisers, and LPs would prove most effective? And when—at long last—would the fog begin to clear?

Now, the fog has burned off. A harder terrain has revealed itself: What had been a smooth surface for years has transformed into a far more challenging road. To separate from peers, distinctive players are taking the measure of the more technical, demanding conditions and actively driving value creation. The opportunities are substantial, but they can’t be realized by gliding down a highway.

With stakes this high, it’s essential for stakeholders to take a comprehensive, data-driven view of the global private markets industry, and to consider performance, fundraising, deal activity, and long-term trends.

Private equity in 2026 is now a mature industry—a dramatic shift from a decade ago. The conditions that once amplified returns—declining interest rates, expanding multiples, and abundant leverage—have passed. Outcomes will increasingly be shaped by deliberate choices: how investors exert sufficient discipline on asset selection and entry multiple; how early and consistently players create operational value; how successfully participants navigate and leverage AI; how rigorously they develop leadership; and how effectively they manage liquidity and risk through longer and more complex holding periods. Under those conditions, alpha is less likely to emerge from market dynamics alone. Increasingly, it will be made.

The real estate industry is evolving. Capital is moving again, but momentum is concentrated in specific sectors and strategies. Overall investment and deal activity remain well below historical highs. There likely won’t be a return to prior-cycle exuberance, at least in the near term. While falling cap rates and rising valuations drove returns in the last cycle, that tailwind is fading. The prevailing cycle is defined by strong execution, capital structure discipline, and platform scale. These dynamics create significant opportunities—and new challenges—for value creation.

Article Harnessing the power of gen AI in private markets January 5, 2026 - Investors are looking for data and tools to accelerate decades-old processes. But today’s obvious answer could become tomorrow’s...

Article Private capital: Confidence returns after a period of measured recovery February 13, 2026 - Private capital has reemerged as a critical driver of M&A.

Article How public-company boards can thrive by adopting private equity practices July 29, 2025 - Public-company boards can boost their effectiveness by embracing key strategies from the private equity playbook to enhance value...