Source ID: PS-VD-014
Firm: Ares Management
Title: Ares Management IR SEC Filings Page
Document Type: annual_report
Bias Tag: company-produced
Seed URL: https://ir.aresmgmt.com/sec-filings
Loaded URL: https://ir.aresmgmt.com/sec-filings
2026-02-25 ARES MANAGEMENT CORP 10-K Annual Report

2026-02-05 ARES MANAGEMENT CORP 8-K Current report filing

Description of the Matter As disclosed in Note 3 of the consolidated financial statements, the Company acquired the international business of GLP Capital Partners Limited and certain of its affiliates, excluding its operations in Greater China (“GCP International”) in 2025 for total consideration of $3,916.5 million. The transaction was accounted for as a business combination. Identifiable intangible assets acquired through this business combination primarily consisted of indefinite-lived management contracts, finite-lived intangible assets-management contracts (collectively, “management contracts”) and finite-lived intangible assets-client relationships with acquisition-date fair values of $749.6 million, $473.3 million and $107.2 million, respectively. Auditing the Company’s accounting for its acquisition of GCP International was complex due to the significant estimation uncertainty in determining the fair value of management contracts. The significant estimation uncertainty was primarily due to the sensitivity of the fair value to underlying assumptions about future performance of the acquired business in the Company’s discounted cash flow model used to measure the management contracts. These significant assumptions included the revenue growth rates and future fundraising assumptions, which form the basis of the forecasted results, and the discount rate. These significant assumptions are forward-looking and could be affected by future economic and market conditions.

As disclosed in Note 3 of the consolidated financial statements, the Company acquired the international business of GLP Capital Partners Limited and certain of its affiliates, excluding its operations in Greater China (“GCP International”) in 2025 for total consideration of $3,916.5 million. The transaction was accounted for as a business combination. Identifiable intangible assets acquired through this business combination primarily consisted of indefinite-lived management contracts, finite-lived intangible assets-management contracts (collectively, “management contracts”) and finite-lived intangible assets-client relationships with acquisition-date fair values of $749.6 million, $473.3 million and $107.2 million, respectively. Auditing the Company’s accounting for its acquisition of GCP International was complex due to the significant estimation uncertainty in determining the fair value of management contracts. The significant estimation uncertainty was primarily due to the sensitivity of the fair value to underlying assumptions about future performance of the acquired business in the Company’s discounted cash flow model used to measure the management contracts. These significant assumptions included the revenue growth rates and future fundraising assumptions, which form the basis of the forecasted results, and the discount rate. These significant assumptions are forward-looking and could be affected by future economic and market conditions.

• Primarily from one opportunistic credit fund, four direct lending funds and two alternative credit funds with $42.6 billion of IGAUM generating returns in excess of their hurdle rates: ◦ Within our opportunistic credit funds, Ares Special Opportunities Fund II, L.P. (“ASOF II”) generated carried interest allocation of $174.7 million, driven by improved profitability of portfolio companies that operate in the services, healthcare and industrial industries ◦ Within our direct lending funds, Ares Capital Europe V, L.P. (“ACE V”), Ares Capital Europe VI, L.P. (“ACE VI”), Ares Private Credit Solutions II, L.P. (“PCS II”) and Ares Capital Europe IV, L.P. (“ACE IV”) generated carried interest allocation of $130.7 million, $119.2 million, $89.7 million and $36.5 million, respectively, driven by net investment income during the period ◦ Within our alternative credit funds, Ares Pathfinder Fund II, L.P. (“Pathfinder II”) and Ares Pathfinder Fund, L.P. (“Pathfinder I”) generated carried interest allocation of $88.1 million and $63.0 million, respectively, driven by market appreciation of certain investments and net investment income during the period • Primarily from five direct lending funds, one opportunistic credit fund and two alternative credit funds with $36.2 billion of IGAUM generating returns in excess of their hurdle rates: ◦ Within our opportunistic credit funds, ASOF II generated carried interest allocation of $177.3 million, driven by improved operating performance metrics from portfolio companies that operate in the services and retail industries ◦ Within our direct lending funds, ACE V, PCS II, ACE IV, ACE VI and Ares Private Credit Solutions, L.P. (“PCS I”) generated carried interest allocation of $153.2 million, $131.1 million, $57.0 million, $54.5 million and $22.9 million, respectively, driven by net investment income during the period ◦ Within our alternative credit funds, Pathfinder I and Pathfinder II generated carried interest allocation of $62.6 million and $39.1 million, respectively, driven by market appreciation of certain investments and net investment income during the period • Reversal of unrealized carried interest of $99.8 million and $23.7 million from Ares Special Situations Fund IV, L.P. (“SSF IV”) and Ares Special Opportunities Fund I, L.P. (“ASOF I”) respectively, primarily due to the market depreciation of their investments in Savers Value Village, Inc. (“SVV”), driven by its lower stock price and lower operating performance of portfolio companies that primarily operate in the retail, services and healthcare industries • Reversal of unrealized carried interest of $68.9 million from Ares Capital Europe III, L.P. (“ACE III”) due to lower valuations of certain investments

• Primarily from one opportunistic credit fund, four direct lending funds and two alternative credit funds with $42.6 billion of IGAUM generating returns in excess of their hurdle rates: ◦ Within our opportunistic credit funds, Ares Special Opportunities Fund II, L.P. (“ASOF II”) generated carried interest allocation of $174.7 million, driven by improved profitability of portfolio companies that operate in the services, healthcare and industrial industries ◦ Within our direct lending funds, Ares Capital Europe V, L.P. (“ACE V”), Ares Capital Europe VI, L.P. (“ACE VI”), Ares Private Credit Solutions II, L.P. (“PCS II”) and Ares Capital Europe IV, L.P. (“ACE IV”) generated carried interest allocation of $130.7 million, $119.2 million, $89.7 million and $36.5 million, respectively, driven by net investment income during the period ◦ Within our alternative credit funds, Ares Pathfinder Fund II, L.P. (“Pathfinder II”) and Ares Pathfinder Fund, L.P. (“Pathfinder I”) generated carried interest allocation of $88.1 million and $63.0 million, respectively, driven by market appreciation of certain investments and net investment income during the period

• Primarily from five direct lending funds, one opportunistic credit fund and two alternative credit funds with $36.2 billion of IGAUM generating returns in excess of their hurdle rates: ◦ Within our opportunistic credit funds, ASOF II generated carried interest allocation of $177.3 million, driven by improved operating performance metrics from portfolio companies that operate in the services and retail industries ◦ Within our direct lending funds, ACE V, PCS II, ACE IV, ACE VI and Ares Private Credit Solutions, L.P. (“PCS I”) generated carried interest allocation of $153.2 million, $131.1 million, $57.0 million, $54.5 million and $22.9 million, respectively, driven by net investment income during the period ◦ Within our alternative credit funds, Pathfinder I and Pathfinder II generated carried interest allocation of $62.6 million and $39.1 million, respectively, driven by market appreciation of certain investments and net investment income during the period • Reversal of unrealized carried interest of $99.8 million and $23.7 million from Ares Special Situations Fund IV, L.P. (“SSF IV”) and Ares Special Opportunities Fund I, L.P. (“ASOF I”) respectively, primarily due to the market depreciation of their investments in Savers Value Village, Inc. (“SVV”), driven by its lower stock price and lower operating performance of portfolio companies that primarily operate in the retail, services and healthcare industries • Reversal of unrealized carried interest of $68.9 million from Ares Capital Europe III, L.P. (“ACE III”) due to lower valuations of certain investments

Carried interest: • Tax distributions of $84.7 million primarily from ASOF II, ACE V, ACE IV and Pathfinder I • Distributions of $12.8 million from two alternative credit funds, which are European-style waterfall funds that are past their investment periods and monetizing investments Incentive fees: • $13.1 million generated from five direct lending funds and three alternative credit funds with $4.1 billion of IGAUM generating returns in excess of their hurdle rates • $4.6 million from an alternative credit fund that crystallized in connection with a loan repayment Carried interest: • Tax distributions of $74.7 million primarily from ACE IV, ACE V, PCS I, ASOF I and an alternative credit fund Incentive fees: • $31.3 million primarily generated from seven direct lending funds and five alternative credit funds with $5.1 billion of IGAUM generating returns in excess of their hurdle rates, and from a U.S. CLO that was driven by the reset of its capital structure and extension of its reinvestment period

Carried interest: • Tax distributions of $84.7 million primarily from ASOF II, ACE V, ACE IV and Pathfinder I • Distributions of $12.8 million from two alternative credit funds, which are European-style waterfall funds that are past their investment periods and monetizing investments Incentive fees: • $13.1 million generated from five direct lending funds and three alternative credit funds with $4.1 billion of IGAUM generating returns in excess of their hurdle rates • $4.6 million from an alternative credit fund that crystallized in connection with a loan repayment

Total revenues $ 5,601,482 $ 3,884,781 $ 1,716,701 44%

6.75% Series B mandatory convertible preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share ARES.PRB New York Stock Exchange

6.75% Series B mandatory convertible preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share

99.1 Press Release of Ares Management Corporation, dated February 5, 2026

99.2 Earnings Presentation of Ares Management Corporation, dated February 5, 2026

Press Release of Ares Management Corporation, dated February 5, 2026

Earnings Presentation of Ares Management Corporation, dated February 5, 2026

Class A common stock, par value $0.01 per share ARES New York Stock Exchange

Class A common stock, par value $0.01 per share