Source ID: PS-VD-035
Firm: StepStone Group
Title: StepStone Group Q4 2025 Earnings Call Transcript
Document Type: earnings_transcript
Bias Tag: third-party-analyst
Seed URL: https://seekingalpha.com/article/4789324-stepstone-group-inc-step-q4-2025-earnings-call-transcript
Loaded URL: https://seekingalpha.com/article/4789324-stepstone-group-inc-step-q4-2025-earnings-call-transcript
StepStone Group Inc. ( STEP ) Q4 2025 Results Conference Call May 22, 2025 5:00 PM ET

Seth Weiss - Head, Investor Relations Scott Hart - Chief Executive Officer Mike McCabe - Head-Strategy David Park - Chief Financial Officer Jason Ment - President and Co-Chief Operating Officer

Ken Worthington - JPMorgan Ben Budish - Barclays Michael Cyprys - Morgan Stanley Chris Kotowski - Oppenheimer

Thank you for standing by, and welcome to the StepStone Group's Fiscal Fourth Quarter 2025 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's program is being recorded.

And now I'd like to introduce your host for today's program, Seth Weiss, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Joining me on today's call are Scott Hart, Chief Executive Officer; Jason Ment, President and Co-Chief Operating Officer; Mike McCabe, Head of Strategy; and David Park, Chief Financial Officer. During our prepared remarks, we will be referring to a presentation, which is available on our Investor Relations website at shareholders.stepstonegroup.com.

Before we begin, I'd like to remind everyone that this conference call, as well as the presentation, contains certain forward-looking statements regarding the company's expected operating and financial performance for future periods. Forward-looking statements reflect management's current plans, estimates and expectations and are inherently uncertain and are subject to various risks, uncertainties and assumptions.

Actual results for future periods may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward looking statements due to changes in circumstances or a number of risks or other factors that are described in the Risk Factors section of StepStone's periodic filings. These forward-looking statements are made only as of today and except as

Insights Transcript Insights Play Call Play Call