Source ID: PS-VD-040
Firm: Brookfield Corporation
Title: Brookfield Corporation Annual Reports Page
Document Type: annual_report
Bias Tag: company-produced
Seed URL: https://bn.brookfield.com/reports-filings/annual-reports
Loaded URL: https://bn.brookfield.com/sites/brookfield-bn-v2/files/brookfield-bn/reports-filings/quarterly-reports/2024-bn-annual-report-0.pdf
Brookfield
Corporation
ANNUAL REPORT



AS AT AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020
PER SHARE1
Net income (loss) $  0.31 $  0.61 $  1.19 $  2.39 $  (0.12)
Distributable earnings before realizations2
3.07 2.66 2.68  2.18  1.74
Distributable earnings2
3.96 3.03 3.25 3.96 2.74
Dividends3
 
Cash 0.32 0.28 0.56 0.52 0.48
Special — — 8.00 0.36 —
Market trading price – NYSE1
57.45 40.12 31.46 49.19 33.38 
1.	 Adjusted	to	reflect	the	thre e-for-two	stock	s plit	effe ctive	April	1,	2020.
2.	 See	de finition 	of	non-IFRS	measure s	in	the	MD& A	Glo ssary	of	Te rms	be ginning	on	page	134.
3. See Corporate Dividends on page 58.
FIVE 	YEAR
FINANCIAL 	 RECORD
12024 	 ANNUAL 	 REPORT

2 BROOKFIELD 	 CORPORATION
CONTENTS
Brookfield	at	a	Glance
Letter	to	Shareholders
Management’s	D iscussion	&	Analys is
PART 1 –	Our	Business	and	Strategy
PART 2 –	Review	of	Consolidated	Financial	Results
PART 3 – Operating Segment Results
PART 4 –	Capitalization	and	Liquidity
PART 5 –	Accounting	Policies	and	Internal	Controls
PART 6 – Business Environment and Risks
Glossary	of	Terms
Internal	Control	Over	Financial	Reporting
Consolidated Financial Statements
Shareholder	Information
Board of Directors and Officers
3
8
22
25
42
61
90
99
108
134
141
146
230
231

BROOKFIELD
AT 	 A 	 GLANCE
We are a leading global investment firm focused on building long-term wealth for 
institutions and individuals around the world. We have one of the largest pools of 
discretionary capital globally, which is deployed across our three core businesses—
Asset Management, Wealth Solutions, and our Operating Businesses. Through 
our core businesses, we invest in real assets that form the backbone of the global 
economy to deliver strong risk-adjusted returns to our stakeholders. Over the long 
term, we are focused on delivering 15%+ annualized returns to shareholders.
With	a	100+	year	heritage	as	an	owner	and	operator,	we	
have	a	prov en	track	re cord	of	de ploying	capital	to	build	
market leading businesses that generate attractive 
long-term	total	returns.	The	cash	flows	gene rated	fro m	
our	businesses	are	generally	underpinned 	by	stable,	
inflation-linked, 	largely	contracted, 	and	growing	revenue	
streams	with	high	cash	margins.	At	the	ce nter	of	our	
success	is	the	Bro okfield	Ecosys tem,	which	is	base d	on	
the	fundamental 	principle	that	each	group	within	
Brookfield	benefits	from	being	part	o f	the	broader	
organization. 	We	leverage	o ur	global	pre sence,	the	
synergies	of	our	businesses	and	large-scale, 	flexible	
capital	to	achieve	strong	returns	across	market	cycles.	
As	a	proven	value	inv estor,	we	re main	focus ed	on	
allocating	the	distributions 	we	re ceive	from	our	
businesses to enhance value for our shareholders.  
We	will	continue	to	de ploy	the	substantial 	fre e	cash	
flows	we	re ceive	towards	s upporting	the	growth	of	 
our	three	bus inesses,	ne w	strategic	o pportunities, 	 
and	share	buybacks .	Our	cons ervatively	manage d	
balance	s heet, 	e xtensive	o perational 	e xperience,	 
and	global	sourcing	networks	allow	us	to	consistently 
access	unique	o pportunities.
Our	scale,	stability,	and	diversification	create	a	diffe renti-
ated	business	model,	positioning	us	well	as	a	partner	of	
choice	fo r 	the	global	buildout	o f	infras tructure,	the	
transition	to	a	s ustainable	e nergy	future,	and	take -pri-
vate	o pportunities. 	We	e xpect	the	fle xibility	of	our	capital	
and	reputation	as	a	good	partner	to	create	a	s ignificant	
proprietary	pipeline	of	opportunities.
Sound	sustainability 	principles	are	inte gral	to	building	
resilient	businesses	and	cre ating	long-te rm	value	for	
our	investors	and	other	stakeholders. 	As	a	result,	 
we	e mbed 	the se	principle s	into	all	our	activ ities—
including our investment process—and conduct our 
business in a sustainable and ethical manner. An 
emphasis	on	diversity	and	inclusion	reinforces	o ur	
culture	o f 	co llaboration. 	It	stre ngthens	our	ability	 
to develop our people and maintain an engaged 
workforce	focus ed	o n	se rving	as	a	trus ted	partner	 
and	first-choice 	provider	of	investment	solutions.
We remain focused on allocating 
the distributions we receive 
from our businesses to enhance 
value for our shareholders.
32024 	 ANNUAL 	 REPORT

4 BROOKFIELD 	 CORPORATION
NORTH AMERICA
$647B AUM
~101,000 
Operating	Employees
SOUTH AMERICA
$57B AUM
~34,000 
Operating	Employees
HOW WE INVEST
The Brookfield Ecosystem
We	invest	where	we	can	bring	o ur	co mpetitive	
advantages	to	bear,	leveraging	our	global	presence	
and	reputation,	the	s ynergies	o f	our	bus inesses,	
and	access	to	large-scale,	flexible	capital.
Long-Life, High-Quality Assets 
and Businesses 
We invest in a global and diverse portfolio of 
high-quality	assets	and	businesses	that	ge nerate	
stable,	inflation-linked,	largely	contracted	and	
growing	revenue	streams,	and	high	cas h	margins .
Proven Capital Allocator
We	are	a	v alue 	inv estor	with	a	track	re cord	
of delivering 15%+ annualized returns to 
shareholders	for	over	30	years,	supported	by	
our	deep	investment	and	operational	expertise.
Disciplined Financing Approach 
We take a conservative approach to the use of 
leverage,	ensuring	that	we	can	pre serve	capital	
across	business	cycle s.
Sustainability 
We are committed to ensuring that the busi -
nesses	we	invest	in	are	s et	up	for	long-term	
success,	and	we	s eek	to	hav e	a	positiv e	impact	
on the environment and the communities in 
which	we	o perate.
4 BROOKFIELD 	 CORPORATION
GLOBAL REACH
$1T+
ASSETS UNDER  
MANAGEMENT
“Brookfield,” the “company,” “we,” “us” or “our” refers to Brookfield 
Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. The “Corporation” is 
comprised of ownership interests in our Asset Management, Wealth 
Solutions and Operating Businesses. Our Asset Management business 
includes Brookfield Asset Management ULC (“BAM”) and our direct 
investments into and alongside private funds managed by BAM. Our 
Wealth Solutions business is via our equity accounted investment in 
Brookfield Wealth Solutions Ltd., a separate issuer. Our “Operating 
Businesses” include Brookfield Renewable Partners L.P., Brookfield 
Infrastructure Partners L.P. and Brookfield Business Partners L.P., 
which are separate issuers included within our Renewable Power and 
Transition, Infrastructure and Private Equity segments, respectively, 
and issuers in the Brookfield Property Group, which are included in 
our Real Estate segment. Additional discussion of their businesses and 
results can be found in their public filings. We use “private funds” to 
refer to the real estate funds, transition funds, infrastructure funds, 
private equity funds, and credit funds of our Asset Management 
business. Our other businesses include our corporate activities. Please 
refer to the Glossary of Terms beginning on page 134 which defines 
our key performance measures that we use to measure our business.

EUROPE & 
MIDDLE EAST
$217B AUM
~62,000 
Operating	Employees
ASIA PACIFIC
$141B AUM
~53,000 
Operating	Employees
2,500+
INVESTMENT 	&	  
ASSET 	MANAG EMENT  
PROFESSIONALS
~250,000
OPER AT ING 	  
EMPLOYEES
NYSE: BN
TSX: BN
30+
COUNTRIES
52024 	 ANNUAL 	 REPORT

6 BROOKFIELD 	 CORPORATION6 BROOKFIELD 	 CORPORATION
Our disciplined, well-established approach to investing reflects our 100+ year history as 
an owner and operator. We focus on value creation and capital preservation, investing 
in high-quality assets and businesses within our areas of expertise. We then manage 
these assets and businesses proactively and finance them conservatively—with the 
goal of generating stable, inflation-linked, predictable and growing cash flows.
Brookfield’s investment activities are anchored by a set of core tenets that guide our 
decision-making and determine how we measure success:
INVESTMENT
OVERVIEW
OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPLES OUR INVESTMENT APPROACH
• Acquire	high-quality	ass ets	and	bus inesses
• Invest	on	a	value	basis,	with	the	goal	o f	growing	
cash	flows	and	compounding	capital
• Enhance the value of investments through our 
operating	expertise
• Build	sustainable	cash	flows	to	provide	certainty,	
reduce	risk	and	lo wer	our	cost	o f	capital
• Allocate	the	fre e	cash	flows	we	re ceive	to	
enhance value for our shareholders
OUR PATHS TO SUCCESS
• Evaluate total return on capital over the long term
• Encourage	calculate d	ris ks,	me asuring	the m	
against potential returns
• Sacrifice	sho rt-term	profit,	if	ne cessary,	to	achiev e	
long-term	capital	appreciation
• Seek	profitability	rather	than	growth—size	do es	
not	necessarily	add	value
Operate our business and conduct our 
relationships	with	integrity
1
Treat our shareholders' capital 
like	it’s	our	own
4
Embed	strong	sustainability	practices	
throughout our operations to help ensure 
that our business model is sustainable
5
Attract	and	retain	high-caliber	individuals	
who	will	grow	with	us	o ver	the	long	term
2
Ensure that our people think and act 
like	o wners 	in	all	the ir	de cisions
3

 
Neoen, Australia
 
Neoen, Australia

8 BROOKFIELD 	 CORPORATION
OVERVIEW  (As	o f 	Fe bruary 	13,	2025)
We	had	a	strong	year	in	2024,	with	record	financial	
results and the completion of a number of strategic 
transactions. Our asset management business had 
over	$135	billion	of	inflows	and	further	expanded	its	
credit	platform	through	a	partnership	with	Castlelake,	
an	asset-backed	credit	specialist.	Our	wealth	solutions	
business	is	now	firmly	established	as	a	top-tier	annuity	
writer	in	the	U.S.,	to p	two	in	Canada,	and	we	are	jus t	
getting started in the U.K. Our operating businesses 
continued	to	deliver	strong	results,	with	our	high-
quality,	essential	service	assets	and	businesses	
generating	stable	and	growing	unde rlying	cas h	flows .
We	were	active	o n	the	inv estment	front	and	at	the	
same	time,	sold	nearly	$40	billion	of	assets	at	s trong	
returns.	This	led	to	the	re alization	of	approximate ly	
$400	million	of	net	carried	interest	during	the	ye ar.	
More	importantly, 	as	we	adv ance	our	inv estment	
plans	and	continue	to	monetize	asse ts,	we	e xpect	this	
number	to	increase	me aningfully 	in	the	ye ars	ahead.
Our	access	to	capital	remains	v ery	s trong.	During	the	
year,	we	finance d	approximate ly	$135	billion	o f	debt	
across	the	busine ss.	We	also	acce lerated	share	buy-
backs	and	repurchased 	approximately 	$1	billion	of	
common	shares	in	2024.	That	has	continued	in	2025,	
adding further to the intrinsic value per share of the 
company.	To	date	this	ye ar,	we	repurchase d	a	furthe r	
$200 million of shares—and as a result of the purchases 
in	the	las t 	twelv e	months,	you	own	1.5%	mo re	of	all	the	
assets	we	own,	without	investing	any	additional	capital.
LETTER
TO 	 SHAREHOLDERS 	 	  
~$160B
DEPLOYABLE 	CAP ITAL
2024 HIGHLIGHTS
$6.3B
DISTRIBUTABLE 	 
EARNINGS
$1B
SHARE BUYBACKS
~$40B
MONETIZATIONS
Each of our businesses 
leveraged their operating 
platforms to generate growing 
cash flows, monetizations 
continue to accelerate, and 
our balance sheet is robust.
Looking	ahead	to	2025,	we	expect	the	positive	
momentum in each of our businesses to continue.  
This	sets	us	up	well	to	generate	s trong	gro wth	in	 
our	earnings	and	cash	flows,	which	in	turn	leads	 
to increased intrinsic value on a per share basis.

MARKETS WERE CONSTRUCTIVE, DESPITE VOLATILITY 
Markets	we re	co nstructive 	for	most	of	2024,	s upported	by	e asing	of	short-te rm	inte rest	rate s	by	ce ntral	banks .	Gro wth	
has	be en 	so lid	and	labor	marke ts	re main	ro bust,	particularly 	in	the	U.S.	With	inflatio n	te mpered,	sho rt	inte rest	rate s	
are	s tabilizing 	at	le vels	co nsistent	with	more	normalized 	economic	conditio ns.
Equity	markets	hav e	be en	strong,	but	als o	e xperienced	incre ased	v olatility	caus ed	by	pote ntial	po licy	change s	and	ge opolitical	
tension.	Despite	this,	labor	markets	are	co ming	into	be tter	balance	and	e conomic	activ ity	co ntinues	to	be	re silient.
Market	conditions	are	looking	to	be	incre asingly	cons tructive,	which	s hould	contribute 	to	a	re surgence	in	trans action	
activity,	especially	for	high-quality 	assets	and	busines ses	like	the	o nes	we	o wn.	2025	appe ars	to	be	another	goo d	ye ar.
OUR INTRINSIC VALUE IN 2024 INCREASED 19%; OUR SHARE PRICE 55%
Our	stock	price	performance 	was	very	strong	in	2024,	increasing	by	55%.	More	importantly, 	our	ability	to	cons istently	
generate	attractive	inv estment	re turns	has	le d	to	the	co ntinued	growth	of	o ur	intrinsic	v alue	o ver	a	long	pe riod	of	time .	
The	intrinsic	v alue	o f	each	share	incre ased	by	$15	in	2024.	At	our	be st	e stimate,	the	intrinsic	v alue	now	backing	e ach	
one	of	your	shares	is	appro ximately	$100,	which	was	a	19%	to tal	re turn	in	2024.	This	underpins	the	co nservative	
investment	you	own	and,	all	else	be ing	e qual,	sho uld	allow	yo u	to	e arn	a	greate r	re turn	than	the	unde rlying	
performance of our business.
As	an	indication	of	the	re turns	that	can	be	ge nerated	for	inv estors	o ver	the	longe r	te rm,	o utlined	be low	are	o ur	stock	
market	returns,	on	a	compound	return	basis	over	the	past	30	years.	For	reference,	$1	million	invested	30	years	ago	 
in	Brookfield	Corporation 	is	worth	$185	million	today,	representing 	an	annualized	return	of	19%.	Over	the	longe r	te rm,	
our stock price and intrinsic value per share have tracked each other.
Compound Stock Market Performance of Brookfield Corporation1
YEARS
Value	o f 	$1	Million	
Invested	in	BN
BN 
NYSE
S&P 
500
10-Year	U.S.
Treasuries
1 $      1,550,000 55% 26% –%
5 2,000,000  15%  15% (2%)
10 4,000,000 15% 14% –%
20 18,800,000 16% 11% 3%
30 184,800,000 19% 11% 3%
See endnotes on page 15
OUR OPERATING RESULTS WERE ALSO STRONG
We	generated	strong	results	in	2024.	Each	of	our	businesses	lev eraged	the ir	operating	platfo rms	to	generate	growing	
cash	flows,	monetizations 	continue	to	acce lerate,	and	our	balance	s heet	is	ro bust.
Financial Results
Distributable	e arnings	(“DE”)	be fore	re alizations	we re	a	re cord	$4.9	billio n,	o r	$3.07	pe r	s hare,	fo r	the	ye ar.	This	re presents	
an	increase	o f	15%	per	share	ov er	the	prior	ye ar.	Earnings	be nefited	fro m	stro ng	fundraising	mo mentum	in	our	as set	
management	business,	continued	growth	in	our	wealth	solutions	bus iness,	and	stable	cash	flows	across	o ur	o perating	
businesses.	As	tailwinds	continue	to	turn	in	our	favo r,	we	are	well	positione d	to	driv e	furthe r	e arnings	growth	and	create	
significant	value	in	the	business	in	2025.
92024 	 ANNUAL 	 REPORT

10 BROOKFIELD 	 CORPORATION
AS AT AND FOR THE 12 MONTHS ENDED DEC 31
($MILLIONS, 	EXCEPT 	PER	SHARE	AMOUNTS) 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 CAGR
DE	before	realizatio ns	–	Per	share2 $      1.51 $      1.89 $      2.38 $      2.66 $      3.07 19%
                                     – Total 2 2,330 2,993 3,825 4,223 4,871 20%
Distributable	Earnings	–	Per	share 2.74 3.96 3.25 3.03 3.96 10%
                                     – Total 4,220 6,282 5,229 4,806 6,274 10%
See endnotes on page 15
Asset Management — Our asset management business 
generated	distributable	e arnings	o f	$694	million,	or	$0.44	
per	share,	in	the	quarter	and	$2.6	billion,	or	$1.67	per	share,	
for	the	ye ar. 	Earnings	we re	s upported	by	s trong	fundraising	
momentum	with	total	inflows	of	over	$135	billion	in	2024.	
Our	latest	round	of	flagship	funds	have	rais ed	appro xi-
mately	$40	billion	across	our	second	global	transition	fund	
strategy,	our	fifth	opportunistic	real	estate	fund	s trategy,	
and	our	flagship	opportunistic	credit	fund	strategy.
The	closing	of	the	mandate	with	American	Equity	Life	
(“AEL”)	and	the	contribution 	from	strategic	partne rships	
also	added	significantly 	to	inflows	during	the	ye ar.	
Fee-bearing 	capital	ended	the	year	at	$539	billion,	
representing 	an	18%	increase,	and	leading	to	a	17%	
growth	in	fee-related 	earnings	compared	to	the	prior	
year	quarter.	Notably,	margins	co ntinue	to	e xpand	
due to the operating leverage inherent in our asset 
management	business.	Looking	ahead	to	2025,	we	
expect	to	hold	final	closes	for	our	latest	flagship	funds	
and	continue	to	activ ely	de ploy	capital,	which	sho uld	
contribute 	to	furthe r	strong	earnings	growth.
Wealth Solutions —	Our	wealth	solutions	business	gene r-
ated	distributable	o perating	e arnings	o f	$421	million,	or	
$0.26	per	share,	in	the	quarte r	and	$1.4	billio n,	o r	$0.85	per	
share,	for	the	ye ar—an	increase	o f	clos e	to	100%	co mpared	
to	the	prior	ye ar.	The	bus iness	is	scaling	rapidly	amidst	
a	very	attractive	market	backdrop.	Fo llowing	the	close	o f	
AEL,	we	are	now	firmly	es tablished	as	a	top-tie r	write r	o f	
retail	annuities	in	the	U.S.	and	with	gro wth	in	o ur	pe nsion	
business,	the	annual	o rigination	potential	of	the	busines s	is	
in	excess	o f	$25	billio n.	The	s caling	of	our	credit	franchis e	
is	supporting	the	growth	of	the	busines s,	and	the	pe rfor-
mance	of	our	investment	portfolio	is	allowing	us	to	maintain	
attractive	s preads	and	ge nerate	ve ry	stro ng	earnings.
During	the	year,	we	originated	approximately	$19	billion	 
of	retail	and	institutional	annuity	sales.	This	includes	
$1.3	billion	of	U.K.	pension	liabilities	that	we	re insured	in	
the	fourth	quarte r.	This	is	o ur	first	trans action	outside	o f	
North	America	as	we	e xpand	into	ne w	marke ts	and	furthe r	
diversify	the	bus iness.	The se	inflo ws	contribute d	to	the	
increase in our insurance assets to over $120 billion at the 
end	of	the	year.	Through	our	inv estment	o rigination	
platform,	we	we re	able	to	ge nerate	an	av erage	inv estment	
portfolio	yield	of	5.4%,	1.8%	higher	than	the	ave rage	co st	of	
capital.	As	we	co ntinue	to	gradually	rotate	the	inv estment	
portfolio,	we	are	po sitioned	to	grow	annualize d	e arnings	
for	the	bus iness	fro m	appro ximately	$1.6	billio n	today	to	
$2	billion	in	the	near	term.	Through	our	combined	wealth	
solutions	platfo rms,	we	are	rais ing	clos e	to	$2	billion	of	
retail	capital	per	month,	which	includes	o ver	$450	million	 
a	month	from	our	private	wealth	channel.
Operating Businesses — Our operating businesses 
delivered	resilient	and	growing	cash	flows,	generating	
distributable	e arnings	of	$562	million,	or	$0.35	per	share ,	
in	the	quarte r	and	$1.6	billion,	or	$1.03	pe r	share,	for	the	
year.	Cash	distributions	from	our	renewable	po wer	and	
transition,	infrastructure	and	private	e quity	busine sses	
were	underpinne d	by	the ir	stro ng	o perating	e arnings.
Our	core	real	estate	portfolio	continues	to	grow	its	s ame-
store	net	o perating	inco me,	de livering	a	4%	increase	
over	the	prior	ye ar	quarte r.	In	addition,	we	s igned	clo se	
to	27	million	square	fe et	of	office	and	re tail	le ases	
during	the	year,	de monstrating	strong	tenant	de mand	
for	our	high-quality	properties.	As	re al	e state	marke ts	
continue	to	reco ver	in	the	coming	ye ars,	we	e xpect	
earnings and valuations of the business to strengthen.

In	our	transition	business,	we	clos ed	the	inv estment	in	
Neoen	and	with	our	Microsoft	agreement,	we	are	o n	track	
to	not	only	me et	but	e xceed	our	de livery	targets.	The se	
deals underscore our deep operating and development 
capabilities	to	po wer	the	AI	transformation.
Monetizations — We continue to see strong demand for 
the	globally	diversified	portfolio	of	high-quality, 	cash-	
generating	assets	and	businesses	we	own.	During	the	
year,	we	mo netized	ne arly	$40	billion	of	ass ets	across	 
the business. With the considerable increase in transac -
tion	activity,	we	e xpect	this	mome ntum	to	acce lerate	in	
2025	as	we	adv ance	our	ro bust	pipeline	of	as set	s ales	at	
attractive returns.
In	our	real	estate	business,	we	close d	the	s ale	o f	a	portfolio	
of	U.S.	manufactured	housing	assets	for	approximately	
$570	million,	crystallizing	an	approximately	29%	IRR	and	
3.4x	multiple	o f	capital.	We	als o	agre ed	to	s ell	a	gro up	of	
logistics	asse ts	in	Euro pe	for	approximately	$500	millio n.	
In	addition,	our	renewable	po wer	and	transition	busine ss	
closed	the	sale	o f	a	Spanish	re newables	bus iness	and	a	50%	
interest	in	a	U.S.	wind	portfolio.	In	2024,	our	renewables	
business generated record proceeds of $2.8 billion from 
asset	monetizations,	returning	a	2.5x	multiple	of	capital	and	
an	approximately	25 %	IR R.	In	our	infrastructure	bus iness,	
we	agre ed 	to	s ell	a	minority	stake	in	a	portfolio	within	our	
global	intermodal	logistics	operation	at	an	implied	equity	
value	o f 	$1.3	billion.	We	also	agree d	to	s ell	a	non-core	
asset	within	our	North	American	hyperscale	data	cente r	
platform	for	approximately	$1	billion,	and	we	clos ed	the	
previously	announced	sale	o f	our	fibe r	platfo rm	in	France ,	
generating	an	IRR	of	17%.
At	year	end,	accumulated	unrealized	carried	interest	was	
$11.5	billion,	representing	a	13%	increase	over	the	prior	
year.	We	re cognized	appro ximately	$400	million	of	ne t	
realized	carried	interest	into	inco me	in	2024,	and	we	
expect	to	re alize	s ignificant	carrie d	inte rest	as	we	activ ely	
monetize	asse ts	in	the	co ming	ye ars.
Balance Sheet and Liquidity 
Our	balance 	s heet	is	robust	and	re mains	v ery	
conservatively 	capitalized. 	This,	combined 	with	our	high	
levels	of	liquidity 	and	access	to	capital, 	continue s	to	
differentiate 	our	business. 	Today	we	hav e	a	±$175	billion	
perpetual 	capital 	base	and	re cord	de ployable 	capital 	of	
approximately 	$160	billion, 	enabling 	us	to	transact 	o n	
investment 	opportunities, 	support 	ongoing 	growth	
initiatives, 	and	protect 	against 	downside 	risks.
Our	financial	strength	enabled	us	to	co ntinue	to	
opportunistically	repurchase	o ur	s hares	at	significantly	
lower	prices	compared	to	our	view	of	intrinsic	value.	In	
2024,	we	acce lerated	o ur	share	buybacks	and	co mpleted	
approximately	$1 billion	in	the	o pen	marke t,	which	adde d	
approximately	80	cents	of	value	to	e ach	re maining	s hare	
based	on	our	plan	value	at	the	e nd	o f	the	ye ar.
We	had	an	active	ye ar	in	the	capital	marke ts,	as	we	
proactively	refinanced	maturities	and	took	advantage	 
of	favorable	marke t	co nditions.	During	the	ye ar,	we	
executed	on	approximately	$135 billion	of	financings	
across the franchise.
A	few	highlights	include :
• In	the	fourth	quarter,	we	acce ssed	the	hybrid	de bt	
markets,	emphasizing	our	ability	to	raise	capital	fro m	
multiple	s ources. 	We	iss ued	$700	million	o f	30-ye ar	
subordinated	notes	at	the	Corpo ration,	raise d	 
$300 million from an inaugural subordinated note 
offering	at	Brookfield	Infrastructure	P artners,	and	
issued a C$200 million green subordinated note at 
Brookfield	Rene wable	Partners.	We	saw	high	demand	
for	all	our	issuances	at	re latively	low	spre ads.
• During	the	year,	our	real	estate	bus iness	finance d	 
approximately	$40	billion	of	debt	across	182	indi-
vidual	investments	globally,	of	which	over	$12	billion	
relates	to	o ur	o ffice	portfo lio.	Liquidity	is	co ming	back	
to	re al 	e state 	marke ts	around	the	wo rld,	particularly	
for	the	high-quality	po rtfolio	o f	as sets	that	we	o wn.
• Subsequent	to	ye ar-end,	o ur	infras tructure	
business	co mpleted	two	large	financings .	We	
issued	a	$6.1	billion	investment	grade	financing	
at	our	semiconductor	facility	joint	venture	in	
Arizona.	The	successful	financing	further	de-
risked	the	inv estment	with	the	o riginal	debt	facility	
now	fully	termed	out	in	the	capital	markets,	two	
years	ahe ad 	o f	plan	and	at	a	lo wer	cost.	We	als o	
executed	a	A$950	million	subordinated	financing	
at	our	regulated	utility	operations	in	Australia	to	
support	growth.	Both	of	these	financings	we re	
oversubscribed,	showcasing	the	de pth	of	liquidity	
available	for	high-quality	infrastructure	asse ts.
112024 	 ANNUAL 	 REPORT

12 BROOKFIELD 	 CORPORATION
ACTIVE INVESTING CONTINUES 
TO GO PASSIVE – OFFERING US 
GREAT OPPORTUNITY
Over	the	past	twenty	years,	global	stock	markets,	and	
in	particular	U.S.	stock	markets,	have	e volved.	To day	
much of the investing for “regular” investors is through 
passive	inde x	inve sting.	For	non-pro fessional	inv estors,	
this	has	prov en	to	be	a	me thod	o f	acce ssing	e quities	
without	needing	to	po ssess	the	inv estment	skills	which	
are	o therwise 	re quired	to	unde rstand	busine sses	and	
therefore	select	specific	businesses	to	o wn.	This	tre nd	has	
continued	to	increase	year	over	year	and	today	repre-
sents	a	large	share	o f	global	financial	marke ts.	While	o n	
balance	inde xing	has	pro bably	be en	go od	for	the	av erage	
investor,	there	are	ramificatio ns	for	lis ted	busines ses.
This	indexing	affects	us	in	a	couple	o f	ways.	The	firs t	is	
that	there	are	incre asingly	a	gro up	of	companie s	that	do	
not	fit	neatly	into	indexes	and	as	a	re sult,	trade	poo rly	
relative	to	v alue.	This	cre ates	a	significant 	opportunity 	to	
take	public	companie s	priv ate,	as	the	v alue	o f	the	asse ts	
are far greater than the price that the assets trade in the 
market—often 	for	no	other	reason	than	they	have	be en	
left	behind	by	indexes.	Our	recent	take	private s	of	
container	company	Triton,	industrial	property	company	
Tritax	Eurobox,	financial	payments	o perator	Ne twork	
International, 	and	many	others	are	all	examples	of	
companies	which	were	“lo st”	in	the	public	market	and,	
therefore	a	goo d	premium	could	be	paid	while	s till	
acquiring	excellent	value.
We	expect	that	as	indexing	continues	to	grow,	more	
companies	will	become	lost	in	the	public	markets.	
As	a	result,	it	is	pos sible	that	we	will	se e	e ven	more	
opportunities. 	In	the	past,	one-third	of	our	acquisitions 	
have	be en 	from	public	marke t	take	private s;	we	
suspect that in the future this could be much higher.
Of	course,	we	o ften	ge t	aske d	ho w	it	is	that	we ,	rathe r	
than	others,	were	able	to	acquire	a	company,	if	it	was	
public	and	everyone	had	acce ss	to	the	s ame	information. 	
The	answe r	come s	down	to	a	few	v ery	s imple	points.	 
The	first	is	that	it	take s	skill	and	re sources	to	take	
companies	private.	We	hav e	now	comple ted	many	
of these and have therefore had a great deal of 
practice.	Second,	public	companies	are	o ften	large ,	
and size eliminates competition from the process. 
This	works	in	our	favor.	And	third,	it	takes	great	
knowledge	of	the	underlying	businesses, 	and	one	
must be able to value assets and gauge their value 
against	the	price	that	one	must	pay.	We	hav e	re fined	
these	skills	over	many	decades,	and	few	others	have	
the	collective 	kno wledge	and	e xpertise	we	hav e	in	
the	areas	of	businesses	in	which	we	o perate.
The	o ther 	way	that	inde xing	affects	us	is	that	while	
our	main	job	is	to	make	mo ney	in	our	busine ss	fo r	our	
owners,	increasingly	to	e nsure	that	the	v alue	o f	the	
business	is	appropriately 	reflected	over	time	in	the	price	
of	the	s hares, 	o ne	has	to	pay	atte ntion	to	the	indexe s	
and	whether	the	business	is	included	in	them	or	not.	Our	
efforts	to	s treamline	the	s hares	outstanding	in	Broo kfield	
Asset	Management	and	establish	their	eligibility	for	all	the	
relevant	major	U.S.	indices	is	the	o utcome	of	this	re ality.
CARRIED INTEREST IS OUR 
HIDDEN GEM
Our	carried	interest	is	a	large	asse t—and	is	no t	we ll	
understood	by	most	investors.	It	is,	however,	of	immense	
value and is our hidden gem sitting in plain sight. We 
estimate	the	v alue	o f	our	carrie d	inte rest	at	±$30	billion.	
To	e mphasize 	how	s olid	this	e stimate	is,	ov er	the	next	 
10	years	alone	as	we	s ell	busines ses	for	our	clients,	we	
should	generate	±$20	billio n	of	cash	flow	from	carried	 
interest	to	Bro okfield	Corporation	in	the	form	of	our	
share	o f 	the	cash	gene rated.	Giv en	this	scale,	we	
thought	it	worthwhile	to	lay	out	for	yo u	ho w	carrie d	
interest	works	and	how	it	contributes	to	o ur	cas h	
flows	and,	in	turn,	the	value	of	our	business.
Alignment Is Critical to Our Business
Our asset management business raises capital from 
pension	plans,	sovereigns,	financial	institutions,	and	
private	re tail 	inv estors	around	the	wo rld	with	the	o bjective	
of investing that capital in great assets and businesses in 
order	to	gene rate	attractive	risk-adjuste d	returns	for	them.	
To	align	our	inte rests,	we	are	a	significant	inve stor	
alongside	our	clients	as	a	side -by-side	partne r.	Further	
alignment	is	also	created	by	us	sharing	in	the	returns	or	
profits	generated	for	clients	above	a	pre scribed	le vel.	 
This	share	of	the	pro fits	is	calle d	carrie d	inte rest.
Put	simply,	carried	interest	is	our	share	o f	the	profits	
realized	on	an	entire	fund,	subject	to	that	fund	e xceeding	
a	minimum	target	return	for	clients.	If	we	me et	fund	
expectations, 	we	get	20%	of	the	profits.	If	we	earn	
nothing	for	our	investors,	we	get	no thing.	

Investing Is the Lifeblood of Asset Management
The	life cycle 	o f	carrie d	inte rest	starts	with	the	raising	of	
client	capital	for	a	dedicated	strategy.	With	the	growth	of	
our	asset	management	franchise	o ver	the	ye ars,	we	no w	
manage $240 billion of capital that is eligible to earn 
carried	interest.	This	figure	has	incre ased	at	an	annual	
rate	o f 	15%	o ver	the	pas t	fiv e	years,	and	we	e xpect	that	
to	co ntinue 	to	s cale	s ignificantly 	going	forward.
The	s econd 	step	is	the	de ployment	o f	the	capital.	We	
have established an investment track record of delivering 
strong	returns	o ver	a	long	pe riod	of	time ,	with	almos t	all	
our	funds	me eting	or	e xceeding	the ir	targe t	returns.	
Much of our outsized returns are generated from our 
deep	operating	capabilities 	and	as	we	imple ment	our	
business	plans,	our	carried	interest	accrues	and	com-
pounds	alongside	the	cas h	flow	ge neration	and	v alue	
creation.	The	longe r	we	hav e	the	capital	wo rking	for	us,	
the	more	the	re turns	co mpound	and	in	turn,	so	doe s	the	
carried interest potential.
The last step is monetization. Selling an investment is 
what	crystalizes	a	large	compo nent	o f	the	profit	of	an	
investment.	As	assets	and	bus inesses	are	s old,	capital	is	
returned	to	clients.	Once	all	the	o riginal	inv ested	capital,	
plus	a	minimum	compound	return	on	drawn	capital,	has	
been	returned	to	clients	we	start	to	share	in	the	e ntirety	
of	the	pro fits. 	To	be	cle ar,	carrie d	inte rest	is	only	trigge red	
with	realized cash transactions; the valuations used prior 
to	s ale 	hav e	no	impact	on	carrie d	inte rest,	pe riod.
We adopt a conservative approach to the recognition of 
carried	interest	in	our	financial	statements. 	We	wait	for	
the invested capital of the entire fund (as opposed to 
individual	deals)	to	be	re turned	to	clients,	the	pas sing	o f	
the	minimum	compound	return,	and	the	co mfort	that	
there	is	remo te	risk	o f	claw-back	before	recording	carrie d	
interest	in	our	earnings.	This	conservative 	appro ach,	
which	creates	further	alignment	with	our	clients,	delays	
the	recognition 	towards	the	e nd	o f	a	fund’s	life cycle	
but	leads	to	a	larger	contribution 	when	recognized.
Therefore,	much	of	the	v alue	cre ation	in	our	inv estments,	
reflected	through	carrying	value	incre ases	or	from	early	
monetizations	in	a	fund,	has	ye t	to	be	re cognized	in	o ur	
earnings.	Today	we	have	accumulate d	$11.5	billion	of	carried	
interest,	or	$7	billion	net	of	costs,	most	of	which	we	e xpect	 
to	re cognize 	into	o ur	e arnings	o ver	the	next	fiv e	ye ars.
The	ke y 	to	the	v alue	o f	carrie d	inte rest	is	cre ating	v alue	
in	businesses	and	selling	assets	o pportunistically 	at	
attractive values to deliver good returns to our clients. 
Fortunately, 	demand	for	our	assets	and	businesses	
remains	strong,	as	we	o wn	ass ets	and	busine sses	that	
form	the	backbone	of	the	global	e conomy	unde rpinned	
by	stable,	long-dated, 	largely	contracted	or	regulated	
cash	flows.	The	bre adth	of	our	fund	offerings	has	
enabled us to continue to transact through economic 
cycles.	In	2024,	we	mo netized	clos e	to	$40	billion	of	
assets	and	as	transaction 	activity	picks	up,	we	e xpect	 
to	be	active ly	monetizing	inv estments.
Carried Interest Generates Substantial “Real” Cash
The	o utlook 	fo r	carried	inte rest	is	significant.	If	we	succe ss-
fully	execute	o ur	plans	in	our	as set	management	busine ss,	
we	e xpect 	to	re ceive	±$20	billion	in	cas h	dire ctly	paid	to	the	
Corporation	over	the	next	10	ye ars.	The se	cash	flo ws	will	
come	predominantly	from	funds	that	already	exist	today.
Further,	the	growth	in	size	o f	e ach	progre ssive	v intage	
of	funds,	combined	with	the	s cale	o f	our	mo netizations,	
should lead to even greater and more recurring carried 
interest	over	the	longe r	te rm—well	abov e	o ur	his torical	
levels.	This	significant	amount	of	incremental	cash	
flow	will	allow	us	to	deliv er	furthe r	v alue	for	you	by	
either reinvesting back into the business or returning 
capital	via	opportunistically	repurchasing	our	shares.
We believe that the value of our carried interest is 
±$30 billion,	which	amounts	to	$21	per	share.	This	reflects	
what	we	wo uld	earn	in	cash	to day	by	se lling	ass ets	in	our	
funds	at	fair	value,	plus	the	v alue	o f	the	carried	inte rest	
potential valued using a conservative market multiple. 
Notwithstanding	the	numbe rs	be ing	v ery	large ,	the	carrie d	
interest	often	remains	underappreciate d.	Ne vertheless,	 
it is our hidden gem in plain sight.
Over the next 10 years alone as 
we sell businesses for our clients, 
we should generate ±$20 billion 
of cash flow from carried interest 
to Brookfield Corporation.
132024 	 ANNUAL 	 REPORT

14 BROOKFIELD 	 CORPORATION
CLARIOS RECAPITALIZATION IS ANOTHER IMPORTANT MILESTONE 
FOR OUR PRIVATE EQUITY FRANCHISE
Over	the	ye ars,	our	ope rations-oriented 	approach	to	inv estment	manage ment	and	our	focus	on	high-quality, 	cas h-	
generative	and	mission-critical 	businesse s	has	differentiate d	our	franchise	across	market	cycles .	This	approach	has	led	
to	us	owning	naturally	s trong	co mpounding	as sets,	and	the	e xecution	of	o ur	ope rational	v alue	creation	plans	usually	
makes	them	even	better.	In	our	private	e quity	bus iness,	this	has	driv en	significant 	v alue	cre ation	for	o ur	stake holders	
which,	on	a	combined	flagship	fund	basis,	has	generated	27%	gross	and	20%	net	returns.	Quite	exceptional.
The	re cent 	div idend	dis tribution	and	re capitalization 	of	Clario s	e xemplifies	this.	As	a	re minder,	Clarios	is	the	world’s	
leading	provider	of	advanced	low-voltage 	batte ries.	We	acquire d	it	v ia	a	corporate	carv e	o ut	fo r	$13.2	billion	in	2019.	
In	our	six	years	of	ownership,	which	included	some	v ery	v olatile	eco nomic	pe riods,	profitability 	incre ased	by	mo re	
than	$500	million	to	over	$2	billion	of	annual	EBITDA,	and	we	re duced	debt	by	$2	billio n.	We	also	solidifie d	the	
business	into	a	leader	in	batteries	for	virtually	all	types	o f	automobile s	glo bally.
With	the	significant 	deleveraging 	from	excess	cash	flow	achieved	over	the	pas t	s ix	ye ars	co mbined	with	Clarios’	
increasing	cash	flow	generation, 	we	de cided	to	re finance	the	bus iness.	For	pe rspective,	we	now	v alue	the	busine ss	 
at	4x	our	original	equity	investment, 	which	supported	the	funding	o f	a	$4.5	billion	s pecial	dis tribution	to	Clarios ’	
shareholders. 	This	allowe d	us	to	generate	cash	to	o wners	of	1.5x	our	o riginal	e quity	while	co ntinuing	to	hold	our	
entire	e quity 	intere st	in	the	busines s.	We	are	now	conside ring	whe ther	to	se ll	an	inte rest	in	the	busine ss	or	just	
continue	to	generate	e xcellent	cash	on	cash	returns	as	it	continues	to	grow.
Since	acquisition 	we	hav e	comple ted	a	significant 	ope rational	transformatio n,	focus ing	on	inv esting	in	ne w	product	
development, 	improving	customer	service	lev els,	o ptimizing	production 	and	e xpanding	the	adv anced	batte ry	
manufacturing 	capabilities. 	Today,	Clarios	powe rs	one	in	thre e	cars	on	the	road.	It	is	an	e xceptionally 	high-quality 	
business	with	80%	of	its	v olumes	co ming	from	recurring	afte rmarket	demand.	Furthermore ,	its	te chnology,	scale	 
and	relationships 	with	ne arly	all	majo r	global	automakers 	are	unmatche d,	pro viding	it	with	an	incre dibly	re silient	
competitive 	advantage.	With	the	pe rformance	re quirements	from	lo w-voltage	batte ries	incre asing	as	cars	be come	
more	electrically 	complicated, 	the	de mand	for	te chnologically 	adv anced	batte ries	is	growing	rapidly.
As	the	global	le ader	in	advanced	battery	production, 	Clario s	is	ideally	pos itioned	to	le ad	this	e volution	fro m	its	
technology	and	manufacturing 	hubs	in	the	Unite d	State s.	The	busine ss	is	in	an	e xceptional	financial	po sition	today	
and	is	investing	major	capital	in	its	U.S.	manufacturing 	capabilities. 	Over	the	las t	de cade,	Clario s	has	inv ested	ov er	 
$1	billion	in	its	U.S.	manufacturing 	operations	and	e xpects	to	more	than	double	its	U.S.	inv estment	ov er	the	next	 
10	years.	This	will	include	new	capacity,	state-of-the-art 	manufacturing 	technology, 	and	important	innovations 	to	
accelerate	growth	and	stre ngthen	its	glo bal	le adership	po sition	in	pro ducing	the	mo st	adv anced	re cyclable	batterie s 
in	the	world.	The	busine ss	has	a	strong	growth	profile	for	years	to	come .
It	is	rare	to	find	a	bus iness	as	e xceptional 	as	Clarios	that	has	s ignificant	growth	tailwinds	suppo rting	a	v isible	trajectory	
of	increasing	earnings	and	cash	flows.	As	such,	Clario s	is	an	incre dibly	v aluable	bus iness,	which	will	continue	to	
differentiate 	its elf	through	our	hands-o n	inve stment	approach.
OWNER OR RENTER?
There	is	a	psycho logical	phe nomenon	in	most	humans	which	re sults	in	caring	a	lo t	abo ut	what	the y	own	but	caring	le ss	
about	something	they	rent.	Consider	the	car	you	own	and	the	care	you	take	not	to	go	to o	fast	ov er	spe ed	bumps ,	for	
example.	Conversely,	rental	cars	are	driv en	with	much	le ss	care ,	and	the ir	de preciation	is	dramatically	highe r	than	owne d	
cars.	In	housing	this	is	even	more	pro nounced;	we ar	and	te ar	o n	re ntal	apartme nts	is	dramatically	highe r	than	thos e	that	
are	owned—in	fact,	buildings	built	at	the	s ame	time	in	the	same	area	with	the	same	de mographics	find	that	rentals	hav e	
50%	more	we ar	and	tear	than	o wned.

It	is	o ur 	obs ervation	that	peo ple	s ometimes	act	like	o wners	with	the ir	hous e,	but	act	like	re nters	with	the ir	inv estments.	
This	is	one	o f	the	great	e rrors	in	inv esting.	Thos e	who	o wn	shares	in	a	listed	busine ss	have	just	a	fractional	o wnership;	
an	owner	of	an	entire	bus iness	s ticks	with	the	inv estment,	and	he /she	be lieves	that	re investment	into	the	bus iness	
creates	v alue 	and	that	ov er	time	the	cashflo ws	will	gro w.	If	that	same	bus iness	happe ns	to	be	trade d	in	the	marke t	and	
the	stock	goes	up,	this	is	acknowle dgement	that	others	s ee	what	a	great	bus iness	yo u	have ,	but	it	re ally	doe s	no t	matte r	
because	as	a	stockholde r	you	are	just	a	fractional	long-te rm	owne r.	By	co mparison,	if	you	o wn	the	apartme nt	o r	ho use	
you	live	in,	yo u	like ly	would	no t	s ell	it	be cause	s omeone	told	you	it	mov ed	up	o r	down	in	price .	When	you	hav e	fractio nal	
ownership	of	a	business,	you	own	a	small	piece	o f	that	bus iness	and	so	unle ss	yo u	lose	faith	in	the	bus iness,	there	
should	be	no	re ason	to	do	anything—just 	act	like	an	o wner	and	watch	the	bus iness	grow.	
Of	course,	decision	making	comes	in	because	s ometimes	management	teams	go	astray	o r	busine ss	pro spects	decline .	
The	abo ve 	is	base d	on	the	assumptio n	that	yo ur	manage ment	te am	is	hard	wo rking	and	co mpetent.	This	is	important	
from	the	o utset	with	an	inv estment,	as	the	future	o f	a	busine ss	is	about	not	just	what	yo u	own,	but	als o	the	inv estment	
of	the	ge nerated 	cash	flow.	It	is	extre mely	impo rtant	that	you	maintain	your	ho use,	and	that	manage ment	in	a	company	
makes	go od 	cash	re investment	decisions	for	you.
Many	shareholders	act	like	re nters	rathe r	than	owne rs,	and	“trade”	simply	be cause	the y	think	that	the	“stock	price	is	
up”.	This	is	not	relevant	to	the	long-te rm	v alue	o f	your	busines s,	and	after	taxe s,	trading	make s	the	frictional	costs	e ven	
more	damaging	to	long-term	returns.	If,	on	the	other	hand,	one	acts	like	an	owne r	in	inv esting,	the n	yo u	will	watch	o ut	
to	e nsure 	that	your	management	is	wo rking	hard	and	doing	the	right	things.	Ho wever,	in	the	abs ence	o f	bad	de cisions	
being	made,	you	should	act	like	yo u	o wn	the	bus iness	and	just	put	the	s hares	away	in	your	account.	Of	cours e,	that	is	
hard	with	daily	quotations	e verywhere—we	re alize	als o	that	the	proble m	is	o nly	ge tting	wo rse,	not	be tter,	due	to	the	
growth	of	social	media.
Owning	a	house	and	a	business	(through	the	fractional	ownership	of	a	listed	entity)	are	two	o f	the	great	tax-free	ways	to	
compound	wealth	over	the	long	te rm.	If	one	can	compo und	owne r	re turns	co nstantly	ov er	lo ng	pe riods	o f	time	at	
greater	than	10%,	the	we alth	create d	by	be ing	an	owne r	is	astonishing.	The	alternativ e	is	renting	a	res idence	o r	re nting	
businesses.	Our	view	is	that	unless	you	are	o ne	of	the	v ery	few	extre mely	tale nted	and	kno wledgeable	s tock	trade rs,	
you	will	surely	underperform	as	a	re nter	as	o pposed	to	be ing	an	owne r.
CLOSING
We	remain	committed	to	investing	capital	for	you	in	high-quality	assets	that	earn	solid	cash	returns	on	equity,	while	
emphasizing	downside	pro tection	fo r	the	capital	e mployed.	The	primary	obje ctive	o f	the	co mpany	co ntinues	to	be	
generating	increased	cash	flows	on	a	per-share	basis	and,	as	a	res ult,	highe r	intrins ic	v alue	pe r	share	ov er	the	lo nger	te rm.
Thank	you	for	your	interest	in	Brookfield,	and	please	do	no t	hes itate	to	contact	any	of	us	s hould	you	hav e	s uggestions,	
questions,	comments,	or	ideas	you	wish	to	s hare.
Sincerely,
 
Bruce Flatt 
Chief	Executive	Office r
February	13,	2025
1. Results	in	the	table	are	s hown	on	a	co mpound	re turn	bas is	to	the	e nd	o f	last	mo nth.
2. Distributable	earnings	be fore	re alizations,	including	per	share	amounts ,	for	the	12	mo nths	e nded	De cember	31,	2020	to	2022	were	adjus ted	for	the	s pecial	
distribution	of	25%	of	our	asset	management	business	on	December	9,	2022.
152024 	 ANNUAL 	 REPORT

16 BROOKFIELD 	 CORPORATION
VALUE  
CREATION
We create value for our shareholders in two ways. First, we participate in the increases 
in earnings and value of our Asset Management, Wealth Solutions, and Operating 
Businesses, which grows our intrinsic value and enables us to increase our cash 
dividends paid to shareholders. Second, we are able to create further value by 
deploying the substantial free cash flows we retain towards supporting the growth of 
our three businesses, investing in new strategic opportunities and share buybacks.
ASSET MANAGEMENT
Our asset management business	is	one	o f 	the	le ading	glo bal	alternativ e	asse t	managers ,	with	ov er	$1	trillion	of	ass ets	
under	management	as	at	December	31,	2024	across	re newable	po wer	and	transition,	infrastructure ,	private	e quity,	re al	
estate	and	credit.	The	bus iness	inv ests	client	capital	for	the	long	term	with	a	focus	o n	re al	asse ts	and	e ssential	s ervice	
businesses	that	form	the	backbo ne	o f	the	global	e conomy.	The	bus iness	draws	o n	o ur	he ritage	as	an	o wner	and	ope rator	
to	inv est 	for	value	and	ge nerate	strong	re turns	fo r	clie nts	across	e conomic	cycle s.	Our	clie nts	include	so me	of	the	wo rld’s	
largest	institutional	investors,	including	sovereign	wealth	funds,	pension	plans,	endowments,	foundations,	financial	
institutions,	insurance	co mpanies,	and	indiv idual	inv estors.	
Our capital is deployed across our three businesses
Each	of	our	businesses	benefit	from	being	a	part	of	the	bro ader	Brookfield 	Ecos ystem,	
leveraging	our	global	presence,	deep	operating	expertise	and	large -scale,	fle xible	
capital	to	achieve	strong	returns	across	market	cycles.	
Wealth 
Solutions
Operating 
Businesses
Asset 
Management

WEALTH SOLUTIONS
Our wealth solutions business ,	via	our	equity	accounted	investment	in	Brookfield	Wealth	Solutions	Ltd.	(“BWS”),	is	
focused	on	securing	the	financial	future s	o f	indiv iduals	and	ins titutions	thro ugh	a	range	o f	re tirement	s ervices,	we alth	
protection	products,	and	tailored	capital	solutions.	Through	its	o perating	s ubsidiaries,	BWS	o ffers	a	bro ad	range	o f	
insurance	pro ducts	and	s ervices,	including	annuitie s,	pe rsonal	and	co mmercial	pro perty	and	cas ualty	ins urance,	and	
life	ins urance. 	BWS	se eks	to	match	its	ins urance	liabilities	with	a	portfolio	o f	high-quality	inv estments	in	orde r	to	
generate	attractiv e,	risk-adjuste d	re turns.	
In	our	wealth	solutions	bus iness,	we	create	v alue	by:
• Acquiring	long-duration 	and	predictable 	insurance	liabilitie s	o n	a	v alue	basis
• Applying	a	proactive	risk	manageme nt	proce ss	to	minimize	the	risk	of	unde rwritten	liabilitie s	through	robus t	
underwriting 	processes,	reinsurance, 	duration	matching	and	liquidity	management; 	and
• Leveraging	Brookfield’s 	broader	investment	capabilities 	to	earn	attractive	risk-adjuste d	returns	o n	our	ins urance	
assets	in	excess	of	the	co st	of	the	ins urance	liabilitie s	we	manage
Our	wealth	solutions	bus iness	targe ts	a	15%	annual	return	o n	e quity	and	we	v alue	this	bus iness	bas ed	o n	a	15x	
multiple	o f 	distributable 	o perating	e arnings,	which	re presents	o ur	v iew	o f	the	fair	v alue	o f	the	busine ss.	As	at	
December	31,	2024,	the	value	of	our	capital	in	this	business	was	$23.4	billion.
During	the	ye ar,	our	we alth	so lutions	bus iness'	ins urance	asse ts	gre w	to	o ver	$120	billio n	and	annualize d	e arnings	in	
this	business	were	$1.6	billion.	Spre ad	e arnings	o n	the	inv estment	portfolio	we re	1.8%	for	the	ye ar	and	are	we ll	
positioned	to	grow	in	the	near	term	as	we	continue	to	ro tate	the	inv estment	portfo lio.	
Within	our	asset	management	business,	we	e arn	fe e	re venues	o n	the	capital	we	manage	fo r	our	clie nts,	carried	
interest	based	on	fund	performance, 	and	returns	on	the	capital	that	we	inv est	dire ctly	into	and	alongside	private	
funds	managed	by	BAM	and	other	investments.
Our	asset	management	business	creates	value	by:
• Increasing	fee-bearing 	capital,	which	increases	our	fee	re venues	and	fee -related	e arnings;
• Maintaining 	cost	discipline 	as	we	s cale	o ur	ope rations;	and
• Achieving	attractive 	inv estment	re turns,	which	e nables	us	to	e arn	performance 	income	(carrie d	interes t)	and	
deliver strong returns on our capital.
We value our asset management business as the sum of: 
i. The	marke t	price	o f	our	73%	o wnership	intere st	in	BAM1;
ii. Applying	a	multiple	to	targe t	carried	intere st,	ne t;	
iii. Our	accumulated 	unrealized	carried	interest,	net;	and
iv. Applicable valuation methods on our direct investments.
As	at	December	31,	2024,	the	market	value	o f	our	stake	in	o ur	ass et	management	bus iness	was	$63.7	billion2. Our asset 
management	activities	generate	annualize d	carrie d	interes t,	ne t	o f	$2.7	billion	and	fe e-related	earnings	of	$2.5	billio n,	
representing	fee-related	earnings	growth	of	17%	over	the	prior	ye ar	quarte r.	This	incre ase	was	primarily	due	to	growth	
in	fee-bearing	capital	of	18%	over	the	prior	ye ar	and	co st	dis cipline	as	we	s cale	our	ope rations.	Total	accumulate d	
unrealized	carried	interest	before	dire ct	co sts	now	s tands	at	$11.5	billion,	o f	which	$10.0	billio n	is	attributable	to	the	
Corporation,	representing	an	increase	of	13%	over	the	year.
172024 	 ANNUAL 	 REPORT

18 BROOKFIELD 	 CORPORATION
OPERATING BUSINESSES
Renewable Power and Transition, Infrastructure, and Private Equity:
Our	investments 	in	renewable	powe r	and	transition, 	infras tructure	and	priv ate	e quity	s erve	as	publicly	listed	
permanent	capital	vehicles	that	also	act	as	our	primary	ve hicles	fo r	making	co mmitments	to	the	private	funds	of	our	
asset	management	business,	providing	each	with	a	strong	pipeline	for	growth.	Each	of	the se	bus inesses	s hare	ke y	
characteristics 	of	being	highly	dive rsified	by	secto r	and	geography,	gene rating	stable	and	often	inflation-linke d	rev enue	
streams,	high	cash	margins,	market	leading	positions,	high	barriers	to	e ntry	and	opportunitie s	to	inv est	additio nal	
capital	to	enhance	returns,	all	of	which	enable	us	to	generate	v ery	attractiv e	ris k-adjusted 	re turns	o n	our	capital.	
Our renewable power and transition business 	owns	diverse	and	high-quality 	asse ts	acro ss	multiple	continents	and	
technologies 	including	hydroelectric, 	wind,	utility-scale 	s olar,	and	distributed 	e nergy	and	s ustainable	s olutions	
investments. 	Our	capital	in	this	busine ss	is	primarily	v ia	our	46%	o wnership	intere st	in	Bro okfield	Rene wable	Partne rs	
(“BEP”)	for	which	we	receive	quarte rly	distributio ns.	We	also	e nter	into	e nergy	contracts ,	which	are	o ur	contractual 	
arrangement 	with	BEP	to	purchase	powe r	generate d	by	ce rtain	North	Ame rican	hydro	asse ts	at	a	fixed	price	that	is	
then resold on a contracted or uncontracted basis.
Our infrastructure business 	is	one	o f 	the	world’s	large st	infrastructure 	inv estors	and	owns	and	ope rates	ass ets	across	
the	utilities,	transport,	midstream,	and	data	sectors.	Our	capital	in	this	business	is	v ia	o ur	26%	owne rship	inte rest	in	
Brookfield	Infrastructure 	P artners	(“BIP”)	fo r	which	we	re ceive	quarte rly	distributio ns.
Our private equity business 	focuses	o n 	owning	and	ope rating	high-quality 	bus inesses	that	prov ide	e ssential	pro ducts	
and	services,	and	are	re silient	thro ugh	marke t	cycle s.	Our	capital	in	this	bus iness	is	v ia	o ur	66% ownership	interest	 
in	Brookfield	Business	P artners	(“BBU”),	41%	be ing	dire ctly	he ld	by	the	Corporation, 	and	for	which	we	re ceive	 
quarterly	distributions. 	
Real Estate:
Our real estate business	is	a	diversified	high-quality	global	real	estate	portfolio	that	owns	and	o perates	pre mier	o ffice,	
dominant	retail,	luxury	urban	retail	and	hotels,	and	multi	and	single-family	residential	properties	in	s ome	o f	the	bes t	
locations	around	the	wo rld	and	has	a	history	of	s trong	performance	o ver	lo ng	pe riods	of	time	and	thro ugh	eco nomic	
cycles.
Our	capital	in	this	busine ss	is	v ia	our	100%	owne rship	stake	in	Broo kfield	Prope rty	Group	(“BP G”),	which	today	co nsists	o f	
an	irreplaceable	portfolio	of	pre mier	pro perties	in	global	gate way	cities	(“core”)	and	a	portfolio	de signed	to	maximize	
returns	thro ugh	a	de velopment	or	buy-fix-se ll	strate gy	(“transitional	and	de velopment),	including	o ur	capital	inv ested	in	o ur	
North American residential business.
$1.4B
WEALTH SOLUTIONS
$1.6B
OPERATING BUSINESSES
$2.6B
ASSET MANAGEMENT
DISTRIBUTABLE EARNINGS

Value of Operating Businesses:
We	create	v alue	in	our	ope rating	busine ss	by:
• Increasing	cash	income	through	organic	levers;	and
• Recycling	the	unde rlying	ass ets
We	measure	the	v alue	the reby	cre ated	using	a	combinatio n	of	market	v alues	for	our	public	affiliate s	(BIP,	BEP,	BBU),	
comparable	marke t	data	fo r	our	No rth	Ame rican	re sidential	busines s,	and	fair	value s	as	de termined	unde r	IFRS	fo r	
the remainder of our real estate business.
Our	capital 	in	our	operating 	businesses 	was	$41.1	billion 	on	a	ble nded	bas is	as	at	De cember 	31,	2024, 	and	
generated 	$1.5	billion 	of	annualized 	cash	flows. 	The	fo llowing 	table	pro vides	a	bre akdown 	of	inv ested	capital 	in	 
our operating businesses:
AS	AT	DEC.	31,	2024	(MILLIONS) QUOTED3 IFRS BLENDED4 CASH	FLOW5
BEP $	 	 6,965 $	 	 3,821 $	 	 6,965 $  428
BIP 6,677 2,202 6,677 336
BBU6
2,120 1,879 2,120 22
$	 	 15,762 7,902 15,762 786
BPG N/A 23,085 24,690 730
Energy Contracts Various 664 664 (28)
Total Operating Businesses $  31,651 $  41,116 $ 1,488
1. In	February	2025,	the	Co rporation	exchange d	its	interes t	in	BAM	ULC	fo r	an	inte rest	in	BAM	Ltd.	o n	a	one -for-one	basis.	Following	this	transaction,	the	
Corporation	holds	a	73%	o wnership	inte rest	in	BAM	Ltd.,	which	in	turn	ho lds	100%	o f	our	Asse t	Manage ment	busine ss.
2. BAM	blended	value	is	pres ented	ne t	of	a	$1	billio n	no n-recourse	loan	issued	to	a	large	ins titutional	partne r	in	De cember	2024.
3. Quoted	based	on	December	31,	2024	public	pricing.
4. For	performance	measure ment	purpos es,	we	co nsider	the	v alue	of	inv ested	capital	to	be	the	quo ted	v alue	o f	liste d	inve stments,	market	pricing	us ing	
industry	comparables	for	our	North	American	residential	business	values	and	IFRS	v alues	fo r	unliste d	inv estments.
5. Annualized	distributions	are	calculate d	by	multiplying	units	he ld	as	at	De cember	31,	2024	by	the	current	distribution	rates	pe r	unit.
6. In	the	fourth	quarte r	o f	2024,	our	We alth	Solutions	bus iness	acquire d	a	$1	billion	e conomic	inte rest	in	BBU	from	the	Co rporation,	re ducing	our	capital	in	 
our	Private	Equity	busine ss.	On	a	co mbined	basis	with	our	We alth	So lutions	bus iness,	we	ho ld	a	66%	ownership	inte rest	in	BBU,	41%	be ing	dire ctly	held	 
by	the	Co rporation.  
 
Clarios , Germany
192024 	 ANNUAL 	 REPORT

20 BROOKFIELD 	 CORPORATION
PERFORMANCE  
HIGHLIGHTS
1.  Adjusted for the special distribution of a 25% interest in BAM.
2.		Adjusted	2020	to	reflect	the	three-for-two 	stock	split	effective	April	1,	2020.
3.		Represents	the	s pecial	distributio ns	o f	a	25%	inte rest	in	BAM	in	De cember	2022,	and	our	We alth	Solutions	busine ss	in	June	2021.	
4.		 	 	Combined,	Brookfield	Corporation 	and	BAM's	2024	quarterly	dividend	would	equate	to	$0.175	pe r	Clas s	A	s hare	he ld	prior	to	the	s pecial	distributio n;	re presenting	a	
17%	increase	co mpared	to	2023,	ass uming	that	shareholde rs	re tained	the	BAM	share s	re ceived	upon	co mpletion	of	the	s pecial	distributio n	in	De cember	2022.
Distributable Earnings
FOR	THE	YEARS	ENDED	DEC.	31	(MILLIONS)
Distributable earnings before realizations, adjusted  
for special distribution
Distributable Earnings Per Share
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
$4,220
$6,282
$5,229
$4,806
$6,274
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
$2.74
$3.96
$3.25 $3.03
$3.96
20202 2021 2022 2023 2024
Capital Returned to Common Shareholders
FOR	THE	YEARS	ENDED	DEC.	31	(MILLIONS)
Capital Returned Per Share
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
$14,665
$0.75
$1.07
$8.99
$0.69
$0.95
20202 2021 2022 2023 20244
Realized carried interest and disposition gains from  
principal investments
Adjusted for special distribution1
Distributable earnings before realizations, adjusted  
for special distribution
Realized carried interest and disposition gains from  
principal investments
Adjusted for special distribution1
$1,145
$1,645 $1,496
2020 2021 2022 2023 20244
$687$879
$646$436
$0.43$0.56
$0.41$0.28
$2,330
$1.51
$1.89
$2.38
$2.66
$2,993
$3,825
$4,223
$4,871
$8.00
$0.32
$0.52
$0.48 $0.27
$0.36$0.19
$1,001$496
$1,082
$13,099
$419$726
$307$800 $538
Common distributions
Share repurchases
Special distributions3
$3.07$0.63
Common distributions
Share repurchases
Special distributions3

NOTICE TO READERS
Pages 1 through 20 of the 2024 Annual Report must be read in conjunction with the cautionary statements included 
elsewhere in the 2024 Annual Report. Except where otherwise indicated, the information provided herein is based 
on matters as they exist as of December 31, 2024 and not as of any future date.
2024 ANNUAL REPORT 21

MANAGEMENT’S 
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
ORGANIZATION OF MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (“MD&A”)
PART 1 – OUR BUSINESS AND STRATEGY Private Equity  .............................................................. 82
Overview  ........................................................................ 25 Real Estate    ....................................................................... 86
PART 2 – REVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED Corporate Activities    ....................................................... 88
FINANCIAL RESULTS PART 4 – CAPITALIZATION AND LIQUIDITY
Overview  ........................................................................ 42 Capitalization  ................................................................... 90
Income Statement Analysis    ....................................... 43 Liquidity    ............................................................................ 94
Balance Sheet Analysis    ............................................... 50 Review of Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows   .. 96
Consolidation and Fair Value Accounting     .............. 55 Contractual Obligations    ................................................ 97
Foreign Currency Translation     ................................... 57 Exposures to Selected Financial Information      .......... 98
Corporate Dividends    ................................................... 58 PART 5 – ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND INTERNAL
Summary of Quarterly Results    ................................. 59 CONTROLS
PART 3 – OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS Accounting Policies, Estimates and Judgments     ....... 99
Basis of Presentation    .................................................. 61 Management Representations and Internal
Summary of Results by Operating Segment    ......... 62 Controls  ....................................................................... 107
Asset Management    ..................................................... 64 Related Party Transactions    .......................................... 107
Wealth Solutions    .......................................................... 71 PART 6 – BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND RISKS    ........ 108
Renewable Power and Transition    ............................ 74 GLOSSARY OF TERMS    ....................................................... 134
Infrastructure   ............................................................ 78
“Brookfield,” the “company,” “we,” “us” or “our” refers to Brookfield Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. The 
“Corporation” is comprised of ownership interests in our Asset Management, Wealth Solutions and Operating Businesses. 
Our Asset Management business includes Brookfield Asset Management ULC (“BAM”) and our direct investments into and 
alongside private funds managed by BAM. Our Wealth Solutions business is via our equity accounted investment in 
Brookfield Wealth Solutions Ltd. (previously known as “Brookfield Reinsurance Ltd.”), a separate issuer. Our “Operating 
Businesses” include Brookfield Renewable Partners L.P., Brookfield Infrastructure Partners L.P. and Brookfield Business 
Partners L.P., which are separate issuers included within our Renewable Power and Transition, Infrastructure and Private 
Equity segments, respectively, and issuers in the Brookfield Property Group, which are included in our Real Estate segment. 
Additional discussion of their businesses and results can be found in their public filings. We use “private funds” to refer to 
the transition funds, infrastructure funds, private equity funds, real estate funds, and credit funds of our Asset 
Management business. Our other businesses include our corporate activities.
Please refer to the Glossary of Terms beginning on page 134 which defines our key performance measures that we use to 
measure our business.
Additional information about the company, including our Annual Information Form, is available on our website at 
www.brookfield.com, on the Canadian Securities Administrators’ website at www.sedarplus.ca and on the EDGAR section of 
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s (“SEC”) website at www.sec.gov/edgar.
We are incorporated in Ontario, Canada, and qualify as an eligible Canadian issuer under the Multijurisdictional 
Disclosure System and as a “foreign private issuer” as such term is defined in Rule 405 under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, 
as amended, and Rule 3b-4 under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. As a result, we comply with U.S. 
continuous reporting requirements by filing our Canadian disclosure documents with the SEC; our annual report is filed 
under Form 40-F and we furnish our quarterly interim reports under Form 6-K.
Information contained in or otherwise accessible through the websites mentioned throughout this report does 
not  form part of this report. All references in this report to websites are inactive textual references and are not 
incorporated by reference. Any other reports of the company referred to herein are not incorporated by reference 
unless explicitly stated otherwise.
22 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION
This Report contains “forward-looking information” within the meaning of Canadian provincial securities laws and 
“forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, the U.S. Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934, “safe harbor” provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and in any 
applicable Canadian securities regulations (collectively, “forward-looking statements”). Forward-looking statements 
include statements that are predictive in nature, depend upon or refer to future results, events or conditions, and 
include, but are not limited to, statements which reflect management’s current estimates, beliefs and assumptions 
regarding the operations, business, financial condition, expected financial results, performance, prospects, 
opportunities, priorities, targets, goals, ongoing objectives, strategies, capital management and outlook of 
Brookfield, as well as the outlook for North American and international economies for the current fiscal year and 
subsequent periods, and which are in turn based on our experience and perception of historical trends, current 
conditions and expected future developments, as well as other factors management believes are appropriate in the 
circumstances. The estimates, beliefs and assumptions of Brookfield Corporation are inherently subject to 
significant business, economic, competitive and other uncertainties and contingencies regarding future events and 
as such, are subject to change. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words such as “expect”, 
“anticipate”, “believe”, “foresee”, “could”, “estimate”, “goal”, “intend”, “plan”, “seek”, “strive”, “will”, “may” and “should” 
and similar expressions. In particular, the forward-looking statements contained in this Report include statements 
referring to future results, performance, achievements, prospects or opportunities of Brookfield Corporation or the 
Canadian, U.S. or international markets, the impact of current market or economic conditions on our businesses, 
the future state of the economy or the securities market, the anticipated allocation and deployment of our capital, 
our liquidity and ability to access and raise capital, our fundraising targets, our target growth objectives, our target 
carried interest, the impact of acquisitions and dispositions on our business, including the AEL and Castlelake 
acquisitions.
Although Brookfield Corporation believes that such forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable 
estimates, beliefs and assumptions, actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements. 
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated or implied by forward-looking 
statements include, but are not limited to: (i) returns that are lower than target; (ii) the impact or unanticipated 
impact of general economic, political and market factors in the countries in which we do business; (iii) the behavior 
of financial markets, including fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates and heightened inflationary 
pressures; (iv) global equity and capital markets and the availability of equity and debt financing and refinancing 
within these markets; (v) strategic actions including acquisitions and dispositions; the ability to complete and 
effectively integrate acquisitions into existing operations and the ability to attain expected benefits; (vi) changes in 
accounting policies and methods used to report financial condition (including uncertainties associated with critical 
accounting assumptions and estimates); (vii) the ability to appropriately manage human capital; (viii) the effect of 
applying future accounting changes; (ix) business competition; (x) operational and reputational risks; (xi) 
technological change; (xii) changes in government regulation and legislation within the countries in which we 
operate; (xiii) governmental investigations and sanctions; (xiv) litigation; (xv) changes in tax laws; (xvi) ability to 
collect amounts owed; (xvii) catastrophic events, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and epidemics/pandemics; (xviii) 
the possible impact of international conflicts and other developments including terrorist acts and cyberterrorism; 
(xix) the introduction, withdrawal, success and timing of business initiatives and strategies; (xx) the failure of 
effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting and other risks; (xxi) 
health, safety and environmental risks; (xxii) the maintenance of adequate insurance coverage; (xxiii) the existence 
of information barriers between certain businesses within our asset management operations; (xxiv) risks specific to 
our business segments including Asset Management, Wealth Solutions, Renewable Power and Transition, 
Infrastructure, Private Equity, Real Estate and Corporate Activities; and (xxv) factors detailed from time to time in our 
documents filed with the securities regulators in Canada and the United States.
We caution that the foregoing list of important factors that may affect future results is not exhaustive and other 
factors could also adversely affect future results. Readers are urged to consider these risks, as well as other 
uncertainties, factors and assumptions carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements and are cautioned not 
to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which are based only on information available to us as 
of the date of this Report and such other date specified herein. Except as required by law, Brookfield Corporation 
undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, that 
may be as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Past performance is not indicative nor a guarantee of future results. There can be no assurance that comparable 
results will be achieved in the future, that future investments will be similar to historic investments discussed 
herein, that targeted returns, growth objectives, diversification or asset allocations will be met or that an investment 
strategy or investment objectives will be achieved (because of economic conditions, the availability of appropriate 
opportunities or otherwise). 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 23

Target returns and growth objectives set forth in this Report are for illustrative and informational purposes only and 
have been presented based on various assumptions made by Brookfield Corporation in relation to the investment 
strategies being pursued, any of which may prove to be incorrect. There can be no assurance that targeted returns 
or growth objectives will be achieved. Due to various risks, uncertainties and changes (including changes in 
economic, operational, political or other circumstances) beyond Brookfield Corporation’s control, the actual 
performance of the business could differ materially from the target returns and growth objectives set forth herein. 
In addition, industry experts may disagree with the assumptions used in presenting the target returns and growth 
objectives. No assurance, representation or warranty is made by any person that the target returns or growth 
objectives will be achieved, and undue reliance should not be put on them. 
Certain of the information contained herein is based on or derived from information provided by independent 
third-party sources. While Brookfield Corporation believes that such information is accurate as of the date it was 
produced and that the sources from which such information has been obtained are reliable, Brookfield Corporation 
makes no representation or warranty, express or implied, with respect to the accuracy, reasonableness or 
completeness of any of the information or the assumptions on which such information is based, contained herein, 
including but not limited to, information obtained from third parties.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING THE USE OF NON-IFRS MEASURES
We disclose a number of financial measures in this Report that are calculated and presented using methodologies 
other than in accordance with IFRS
®
 Accounting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards 
Board (“IASB”). We use these measures in managing the business, including for performance measurement, capital 
allocation and valuation purposes and believe that providing these performance measures on a supplemental basis 
to our IFRS results is helpful to investors in assessing the overall performance of our businesses. These financial 
measures should not be considered as the sole measure of our performance and should not be considered in 
isolation from, or as a substitute for, similar financial measures calculated in accordance with IFRS Accounting 
Standards. We caution readers that these non-IFRS financial measures or other financial metrics may differ from the 
calculations disclosed by other businesses and, as a result, may not be comparable to similar measures presented 
by other issuers and entities. Reconciliations of these non-IFRS financial measures to the most directly comparable 
financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with IFRS Accounting Standards, where applicable, are 
included within this Report. Please refer to our Glossary of Terms beginning on page 134 for all non-IFRS measures.
24 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

PART 1
OUR BUSINESS AND STRATEGY
OVERVIEW
We are a leading global investment firm focused on building long-term wealth for institutions and individuals 
around the world. We have one of the largest pools of discretionary capital globally, which is deployed across our 
three core businesses—Asset Management, Wealth Solutions, and our Operating Businesses. Through our core 
businesses, we invest in real assets that form the backbone of the global economy to deliver strong risk-adjusted 
returns to our stakeholders. Over the long term, we are focused on delivering 15%+ annualized returns to 
shareholders.
With a 100+ year heritage as an owner and operator of real assets, we have a proven track record of deploying 
capital to build market leading businesses that generate attractive long-term total returns. The cash flows generated 
from our businesses are generally underpinned by stable, inflation-linked, largely contracted, and growing revenue 
streams with high cash margins. At the center of our success is the Brookfield Ecosystem, which is based on the 
fundamental principle that each group within Brookfield benefits from being part of the broader organization. We 
leverage our global presence, the synergies of our businesses and large-scale, flexible capital to achieve strong 
returns across market cycles. 
As a proven value investor, we remain focused on allocating the distributions we receive from our businesses to 
enhance value for our shareholders. We will continue to deploy the substantial free cash flows we receive towards 
supporting the growth of our three businesses, new strategic opportunities, and share buybacks. Our conservatively 
managed balance sheet, extensive operational experience, and global sourcing networks allow us to consistently 
access unique opportunities.
Our scale, stability, and diversification create a differentiated business model, positioning us well as a partner of 
choice for the global buildout of infrastructure, the transition to a sustainable energy future, and take-private 
opportunities. We expect the flexibility of our capital and reputation as a good partner to create a significant 
proprietary pipeline of opportunities.
Sound sustainability principles are integral to building resilient businesses and creating long term value for our 
investors and other stakeholders. As a result, we embed these principles into all our activities—including our 
investment process—and conduct our business in a sustainable and ethical manner. An emphasis on diversity and 
inclusion reinforces our culture of collaboration. It strengthens our ability to develop our people and maintain an 
engaged workforce focused on serving as a trusted partner and first-choice provider of investment solutions.
ü Investment Focus
 We invest in a global and diverse portfolio of high-quality assets and businesses that are predominantly long-
term or perpetual in nature and have the following attributes:
• stable, largely contracted or inflation-linked, and growing revenues
• ability to drive outsized financial returns through operational excellence
• highly cash-generative
• high barriers to entry with a market leading position
• offer continuous deployment opportunities
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 25

ü Focused Investment Strategies
We invest where we can bring our competitive advantages to bear, leveraging our global presence, deep 
operating expertise, and large-scale, flexible capital to achieve strong returns across market cycles.
ü Proven Capital Allocator
We are a value investor with a track record of delivering 15%+ annualized returns to shareholders for over 30 
years, supported by our deep investment and operational expertise.
ü Disciplined Financing Approach
 We take a conservative approach to the use of leverage, ensuring that we can preserve capital across business 
cycles. Underlying investments are typically funded at investment-grade levels on a standalone and non-
recourse basis, providing us with a stable capitalization. Only 6% of the total leverage
1
 reported in our 
consolidated financial statements has recourse to the Corporation.
ü Sustainability
We are committed to ensuring that the businesses we invest in are set up for long-term success, and we seek to 
have a positive impact on the environment and the communities in which we operate.
We calculate the value of Brookfield Corporation as the capital we have in our three core businesses—Asset 
Management, Wealth Solutions, and Operating Businesses. Our financial returns are represented by capital 
appreciation and distributions from our businesses. The primary performance measure that we use to evaluate the 
performance of our business is distributable earnings (“DE”)
1
.
ASSET MANAGEMENT
Our Asset Management business is a leading global alternative asset manager with over $1 trillion of assets under 
management (“AUM”)
1
 as at December 31, 2024 across renewable power and transition, infrastructure, private 
equity, real estate and credit. The business invests client capital for the long term with a focus on real assets and 
essential service businesses that form the backbone of the global economy. The business draws on our heritage as 
an owner and operator to invest for value and generate strong returns for clients, across economic cycles. Our 
clients include some of the world’s largest institutional investors, including sovereign wealth funds, pension plans, 
endowments, foundations, financial institutions, insurance companies, and individual investors.
Within each investment vertical, our business manages capital in a variety of products that broadly fall into one of 
three categories: i) long-term private funds, ii) perpetual strategies and iii) liquid strategies
1
. Products within these 
three strategies have similar base management fee
1
 and carried interest
1
 or performance fee
1
 drivers. 
Our capital in this business is via our 73% ownership interest in Brookfield Asset Management ULC (“BAM”)
1,2
 for 
which we receive quarterly distributions, our carried interest, as well as our direct investments into and alongside 
private funds managed by BAM. Our direct investments are primarily comprised of capital invested in flagship real 
estate private funds which own a globally diversified portfolio of high-quality assets and portfolios with operational 
upside (“LP Investments”) across logistics, multifamily, hospitality, office, retail, triple net lease, self-storage, student 
housing and the manufactured housing sectors. We also invest directly in certain private equity and credit funds.
WEALTH SOLUTIONS
Our Wealth Solutions business , via our equity accounted investment in Brookfield Wealth Solutions Ltd. (“BWS”, 
previously known as “Brookfield Reinsurance Ltd.”)
1
, is a wealth solutions provider focused on securing the financial 
futures of individuals and institutions through a range of retirement services, wealth protection products and 
tailored capital solutions.
1. See definition in Glossary of Terms beginning on page 134.
2. In February 2025, the Corporation exchanged its interest in BAM ULC for an interest in Brookfield Asset Management Ltd. (“BAM Ltd.”) on a one-
for-one basis. Following this transaction, the Corporation holds a 73% ownership interest in BAM Ltd., which in turn holds 100% of our Asset 
Management business.
26 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

Through its operating subsidiaries, the business offers a broad range of products and services, including annuities, 
personal and commercial property and casualty insurance, and life insurance.
Our Wealth Solutions business’ insurance assets increased to over $120 billion as we closed on the acquisition of 
American Equity Life (“AEL”) and originated annuity sales in 2024. Our annualized earnings in this business were 
$1.6 billion for the year, with spread earnings on the investment portfolio of 1.8%, which are expected to grow as we 
continue to reposition the investment portfolio. 
Our Asset Management business acts as the investment manager of most of the assets of our Wealth Solutions 
business.
OPERATING BUSINESSES
We have over $40 billion of capital on a blended basis in our Operating Businesses as a result of our history as an 
owner and operator of real assets. This capital generates attractive financial returns and provides important 
financial stability and flexibility to the Corporation.
Renewable Power and Transition, Infrastructure, and Private Equity
Our investments in Renewable Power and Transition, Infrastructure, and Private Equity serve as publicly listed 
permanent capital vehicles that also act as our primary vehicles for making commitments to the private funds of our 
Asset Management business, providing each with a strong pipeline for growth. Each of these businesses share key 
characteristics—highly diversified by sector and geography, generating stable and often inflation-linked revenue 
streams, high cash margins, market leading positions, high barriers to entry and opportunities to invest additional 
capital to enhance returns—all of which enable us to generate very attractive risk-adjusted returns on our capital.
Our Renewable Power and Transition business owns a diverse portfolio of high-quality assets across multiple 
continents and technologies including hydroelectric, wind, utility-scale solar, and distributed energy and sustainable 
solutions investments  Our capital in this business is primarily via our 46% ownership interest in Brookfield 
Renewable Partners (“BEP”)
1
 for which we receive quarterly distributions. We also enter into energy contracts, which 
are our contractual arrangements with BEP to purchase power generated by certain North American hydro assets at 
a fixed price that is then resold on a contracted or uncontracted basis. 
Our Infrastructure business is one of the world’s largest infrastructure investors, which owns and operates assets 
across the utilities, transport, midstream and data sectors. Our capital in this business is via our 26% ownership 
interest in Brookfield Infrastructure Partners (“BIP”)
1
 for which we receive quarterly distributions. 
Our Private Equity business is a leading global owner and operator of businesses that provide essential products 
and services in the business services and industrials sectors. In the fourth quarter of 2024, our wealth solutions 
business acquired a $1 billion economic interest in Brookfield Business Partners (“BBU”)
1
 from the Corporation. On 
a combined basis with our Wealth Solutions business, we hold a 66% ownership interest in BBU, 41% being directly 
held by the Corporation, and for which we receive quarterly distributions. BBU has a policy of paying a modest 
distribution and reinvesting the majority of its funds from operations (“FFO”)
1
 back into its businesses to further 
enhance value.
Real Estate
Our Real Estate business is a diversified global real estate business that owns and operates premier office, 
dominant retail, luxury urban retail and hotels, and multi & single family residential properties. Our capital in this 
business is via our 100% ownership stake in Brookfield Property Group (“BPG”)
1
, which today consists of an 
irreplaceable portfolio of premier properties in global gateway cities (“core”), and a portfolio designed to maximize 
returns through a development or buy-fix-sell strategy (“transitional and development”), including our capital 
invested in our North American residential business.
Refer to Parts 2 and 3 of this MD&A for more information on our operations and performance.
1. See definition in Glossary of Terms beginning on page 134.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 27

COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES
At the center of our success is the Brookfield Ecosystem, which is based on the fundamental principle that each 
group within Brookfield benefits from being part of the broader organization. We have three distinct competitive 
advantages that enable us to consistently identify and acquire high-quality assets and create significant value in the 
assets that we own and operate. We leverage our global presence, the synergies of our businesses and large-scale, 
flexible capital to achieve strong returns across market cycles. 
SIGNIFICANT & PERPETUAL CAPITAL BASE
We have invested capital
1
 of approximately $175 billion and a stable and growing annual free cash flow of 
$5.6  billion as at December 31, 2024. The access to significant resources has enabled us to (1) pursue highly 
accretive growth, (2) accelerate the growth of our Asset Management business, and (3) build and grow new 
businesses.
GLOBAL REACH
We operate in more than 30 countries on five continents 
around the world. 
We have incubated, built, and launched market leading 
businesses over the past 30 years, each of which has reached 
global scale and enables the Corporation to pursue 
acquisition or growth of the next market leader. Our existing 
relationships and reputation as a superior partner are true 
differentiators and have increasingly positioned us as the 
capital solutions provider of choice for major global brands. 
We expect to leverage our resources and reputation to 
continue to seek opportunities that will provide total returns 
of over 15%+ a year over the long-term. 
SYNERGIES ACROSS STRATEGIES
We believe that separation of business activities achieves efficient capital structures and focused growth 
opportunities and collaboration achieves higher returns and better outcomes for all of our market leading 
businesses. The Corporation and its market leading businesses are strategically aligned for all of them to perform 
and deliver strong results for stakeholders.
The collaboration between the 2,500+ investment and asset management professionals in our Asset Management 
business and approximately 250,000 operating employees located in over 30 countries on five continents, provides 
Brookfield with deep investment and operating expertise across several sectors and industries, global reach and 
unique access to proprietary investment opportunities. The complementary skill sets of our people position us to 
manage operational risk, achieve operating efficiencies and enhance returns.
1. See definition in Glossary of Terms beginning on page 134.
28 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

INVESTMENT CYCLE
Identify and Invest in High-Quality Assets
We follow a value-based approach to investing and allocating capital. We believe that our disciplined approach, 
global reach and our operating expertise enable us to identify a wide range of potential opportunities, and allow 
us to invest at attractive valuations and generate superior risk-adjusted returns. We also leverage our 
considerable expertise in executing recapitalizations, operational turnarounds and large development and capital 
projects, providing additional opportunities to deploy capital. 
Secure Long-Term Financing
We finance our operations predominantly on a long-term, investment-grade basis, and most of our capital consists 
of equity and standalone asset-by-asset financing with minimal recourse to other parts of the organization. We 
utilize relatively modest levels of corporate debt to provide operational flexibility and optimize returns. This 
provides us with considerable stability, improves our ability to withstand financial downturns and enables our 
management teams to focus on operations and other growth initiatives.
Enhance Value and Cash Flows Through Operating Expertise
Our strong, time-tested operating capabilities enable us to increase the value of the assets within our businesses 
and the cash flows they produce, and they help to protect capital in adverse conditions. Our operating expertise, 
development capabilities and effective financing can help ensure that an investment’s full value creation potential 
is realized, which we believe is one of our most important competitive advantages.
Realize Capital from Asset Sales or Refinancings
We actively monitor opportunities to sell or refinance assets to generate proceeds; in the limited life funds of our 
Asset Management business that capital is returned to investors, and in the case of perpetual funds, we then 
redeploy the capital to enhance returns. In many cases, returning capital from private funds completes the 
investment process, locks in investor returns and gives rise to performance income.
Our Operating Cycle Leads to Value Creation 
We create value from earning robust returns on our investments that compound over time and grow the fee-
bearing capital of our Asset Management business. By generating value for our investors and shareholders, we 
increase fees and carried interest received in our Asset Management business, and grow cash flows that 
compound value in our invested capital.  
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 29

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
The Corporation has $6.2 billion of core liquidity
1
, inclusive of our proportionate share of the cash of our Asset 
Management business, and approximately $160 billion of deployable capital
1
 on a group basis as at December 31, 
2024. We manage our liquidity and capitalization on a group-wide basis, which we organize into three principal tiers: 
i) The Corporation: 
• Strong levels of liquidity are maintained to support growth and ongoing operations.
• Capitalization consists of a large common equity base, supplemented with perpetual preferred shares, 
long-dated corporate bonds and, from time to time, draws on our corporate credit facilities.
• Certain guarantees are provided on the financial obligations of perpetual affiliates and managed funds.
• High levels of cash flows are available after payment of common share dividends.
ii) Our three core businesses, including BAM, BWS, and our Operating Businesses (BEP, BIP, BBU and BPG)
1
:
• Strong levels of liquidity are maintained at each of our core businesses to support their growth and 
ongoing operations.
• Each business is intended to be self-funding with stable capitalization through market cycles.
• Financial obligations have no recourse to the Corporation.
iii) Investment-level, including underlying investments within our core businesses and our directly held assets:
• Each underlying investment is typically funded on a standalone basis using asset-level financing.
• Fund-level borrowings within our Asset Management business are generally limited to subscription facilities 
backed by the capital commitments to the fund.
• Financial obligations have no recourse to the Corporation.
APPROACH TO CAPITALIZATION
We maintain a prudent level of long-dated capitalization in the form of common equity, perpetual preferred shares 
and corporate bonds, which provides a very stable capital structure. In addition, we maintain appropriate levels of 
liquidity throughout the organization to fund operating, development and investment activities as well as 
unforeseen requirements. 
A key element of our capital strategy is to maintain significant liquidity at the corporate level, primarily in the form 
of cash, financial assets and undrawn credit lines. 
Within our BAM, BWS, and our Operating Businesses, we strive to:
• Ensure our businesses can finance their operations on a standalone basis without recourse to or reliance 
on the Corporation.
• Structure borrowings and other financial obligations associated with assets or portfolio companies to provide a 
stable capitalization at levels that are attractive to investors, are sustainable on a long-term basis and can 
withstand business cycles.
• Ensure the vast majority of this debt is at investment-grade levels; however, periodically, we may borrow at sub-
investment grade levels in certain parts of our business where the borrowings are carefully structured and 
monitored. 
• Provide recourse only to the specific businesses or assets being financed, without cross-collateralization or 
parental guarantees. 
• Match the duration of our debt to the underlying leases or contracts and match the currency of our debt to that 
of the assets such that our remaining exposure is on the net equity of the investment.
1. See definition in Glossary of Terms beginning on page 134.
30 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

As at December 31, 2024, only $14 billion of long-term debt has recourse to the Corporation. The remaining debt on 
our consolidated balance sheet is held within managed entities and has no recourse to the Corporation but is 
consolidated under IFRS Accounting Standards.
LIQUIDITY
• The Corporation has very few capital requirements. Nevertheless, we maintain significant liquidity ($6.2 billion 
in the form of corporate cash and financial assets and undrawn credit facilities as at December 31, 2024) at the 
corporate level to further enable the growth of the broader business. This does not include our ability to issue 
debt or monetize investments to replenish our liquidity.
• On a group basis, as at December 31, 2024 we have approximately $160  billion of deployable capital, which 
includes corporate liquidity, perpetual affiliate liquidity and uncalled private fund commitments. Uncalled 
private fund commitments include third-party commitments available for drawdown in the private funds of our 
asset management business. 
AS AT DEC. 31, 2024
(MILLIONS)
Corporate 
Liquidity
Deployable 
Capital
Cash and financial assets, net   ............................................................................................................. $ 2,863 $ 56,815 
Undrawn committed credit facilities    .................................................................................................  3,361  10,989 
Core liquidity    .........................................................................................................................................  6,224  67,804 
Third-party uncalled private fund commitments    ...........................................................................  —  91,463 
Total liquidity     ........................................................................................................................................ $ 6,224 $ 159,267 
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
We utilize a metric we call the Corporation’s Capital to manage the business in a number of ways, including 
operating performance, value creation, credit metrics and capital efficiency. The performance of the Corporation’s 
Capital is closely tracked and monitored by the company’s key management personnel and evaluated against 
management’s objectives. The primary goal of the company is to earn a 15%+ return compounded over the long 
term while always maintaining significant liquidity to support ongoing operations.
The Corporation’s Capital consists of the capital invested in its asset management activities, including investments in 
entities that it manages, its corporate investments that are held outside of managed entities and its net working 
capital, and is computed as follows:
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Cash and cash equivalents    .................................................................................................................. $ 820 $ 134 
Other financial assets   ...........................................................................................................................  1,234  4,004 
Common equity in managed investments    .......................................................................................  56,147  53,523 
Other assets and liabilities of the Corporation     ...............................................................................  2,238  506 
Corporation’s Capital     ......................................................................................................................... $ 60,439 $ 58,167 
The Corporation’s Capital is funded with common equity, preferred equity and corporate borrowings issued by the 
Corporation.
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Common equity  ...................................................................................................................................... $ 41,874 $ 41,674 
Preferred shares   ....................................................................................................................................  4,103  4,103 
Non-controlling interest  .......................................................................................................................  230  230 
Corporate borrowings     ..........................................................................................................................  14,232  12,160 
Corporation’s Capital     ......................................................................................................................... $ 60,439 $ 58,167 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 31

We maintain a prudent level of capitalization at the Corporation with 79% of our book capitalization in the form of 
common and preferred equity. Consistent with our conservative approach, our corporate borrowings represent 
only 21% of our corporate book capitalization and equate to just 6% of our consolidated debt.
The remaining 94% of our consolidated debt is non-recourse and is held within managed entities and has virtually 
no cross-collateralization or parental guarantees by the Corporation. 
The following table presents our total capitalization on a corporate and consolidated basis. Total capitalization also 
includes amounts payable under long-term incentive plans, deferred tax liabilities and other working capital 
balances:
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS)
Corporate Consolidated
2024 2023 2024 2023
Corporate borrowings     ....................................................................... $ 14,232 $ 12,160 $ 14,232 $ 12,160 
Non-recourse borrowings
Subsidiary borrowings   ....................................................................  —  —  16,002  16,214 
Property-specific borrowings    ........................................................  —  —  204,558  205,336 
 14,232  12,160  234,792  233,710 
Corporation’s Capital, excluding corporate borrowings    ............  46,207  46,007  46,207  46,007 
Accounts payable, deferred taxes and other      ...............................  4,471  3,476  209,425  210,378 
Total capitalization     ............................................................................. $ 64,910 $ 61,643 $ 490,424 $ 490,095 
Debt to capitalization
1
    .......................................................................  21%  20%  47%  48% 
CASH FLOW GENERATION FROM OUR CAPITAL
Our Corporation’s Capital generates significant, recurring cash flows at the corporate level, which may be used for 
(i) returning cash to shareholders; or (ii) reinvestment into the business. These cash flows are underpinned by:
• Distributions from our Asset Management business, which are supported by fee-related earnings
1
 from 
predominantly long-term or perpetual contractual agreements. 
• Wealth Solutions operating earnings, which are backed by attractive returns earned on assets that are matched 
to corresponding predictable, long-duration insurance liabilities.
• Distributions from Operating Businesses which are stable and backed by high-quality cash-generating real 
assets.
These cash flows are supplemented with carried interest and disposition gains on principal investments as we 
monetize mature investments and return capital to our investors.
 
1. See definition in Glossary of Terms beginning on page 134.
32 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

DE were $6.3 billion for the year. DE before realizations increased by 15% compared to the prior year.
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31 2024 2023
Distributable earnings from Asset Management business  ............................................................... $ 2,645 $ 2,554 
Wealth Solutions operating earnings     .....................................................................................................  1,350  740 
Distributions from Operating Businesses     .............................................................................................  1,626  1,462 
Corporate activities   ....................................................................................................................................  (683)  (465) 
Preferred share dividends
1
   ......................................................................................................................  (176)  (176) 
 (859)  (641) 
Add back: equity-based compensation costs  .......................................................................................  109  108 
Distributable earnings before realizations     .....................................................................................  4,871  4,223 
Realized carried interest, net
2,3
      ...............................................................................................................  403  570 
Disposition gains from principal investments
4
   ....................................................................................  1,000  13 
Distributable earnings      ........................................................................................................................... $ 6,274 $ 4,806 
1. Includes $10 million (2023 – $10 million) of dividends paid on perpetual subordinated notes for the year ended December 31, 2024.
2. Includes our share of Oaktree’s distributable earnings attributable to realized carried interest.
3. See definition in Glossary of Terms beginning on page 134.
4. Disposition gains from principal investments are primarily related to the sale in the second quarter of 2024 of a portion of our interest in BAM, 
which was used as part of the consideration for the acquisition of AEL.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 33

RISK MANAGEMENT
OUR APPROACH
Managing risk is an integral and critical part of our 
business. We have a well-established, proactive and 
disciplined risk management approach that is based 
on  clear operating methods and a strong risk 
management culture. We ensure that we have the 
necessary capacity and resilience to respond to 
changing environments by evaluating both current and 
emerging risks. We adhere to a robust risk 
management framework and methodology that is 
designed to enable comprehensive and consistent 
management of risk across the organization. We use a 
thorough and integrated risk assessment process to 
identify and evaluate risk areas across the business, 
including human capital, climate change, cybersecurity, 
liquidity, disruption, regulatory compliance and other 
strategic, financial, and operational risks. Management 
and mitigation approaches are tailored to the specific 
risk areas and executed by business and functional 
groups for their businesses and areas of responsibility, 
with appropriate coordination and oversight through 
monitoring and reporting processes.
FOCUS ON RISK CULTURE
A strong risk culture is the cornerstone of our risk management program: one that promotes measured and 
appropriate risk-taking, addresses current and emerging risks, and ensures employees conduct business with a 
long-term perspective and in a sustainable and ethical manner. This culture is reinforced by the strong commitment 
and leadership of our senior executives and supported by the policies and practices we have implemented, 
including our compensation approach.
34 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

SHARED EXECUTION
Given the diversified and decentralized nature of our operations, we seek to ensure that risk is managed as close to 
its source as  possible and by management teams that have the most knowledge and expertise in the specific 
business or risk area. As  such,  business specific risks—such as health and safety, environmental and other 
operational risks—are generally managed at the operating business level, as the risks vary based on the nature of 
each business. At the same time, we monitor key risks organization-wide to ensure adequacy of risk management, 
adherence to applicable Brookfield policies, and sharing of best practices. 
For risks that are more pervasive and correlated in their impact across the organization—such as liquidity, foreign 
exchange and interest rates or where we can bring specialized knowledge—we utilize a coordinated approach that 
is centralized amongst our corporate and business groups. Management of strategic, reputational and regulatory 
and compliance risks are similarly coordinated to ensure consistent focus and implementation across the 
organization.
Oversight & Coordination
We have implemented strong governance practices to monitor and oversee our risk management program. 
Management committees bring together required expertise to manage key risk areas, ensuring appropriate 
application and coordination of risk management practices across our business and functional groups, and include 
the following:
• Risk Management Steering Committee  – supports the overall corporate risk management program, and 
coordinates risk assessment and mitigation on an enterprise-wide basis
• Investment Committees  – oversees the investment process and reviews and approves investment 
transactions
• Conflicts Committee – resolves potential conflict situations in the investment process and other corporate 
transactions
• Financial Risk Oversight Committee – reviews and monitors financial exposures
• Sustainability Leadership – oversees, coordinates and implements activities related to sustainability, including 
current and future initiatives, and sector and market trends
• Safety Leadership Committee  – promotes strong safety culture, monitors safety trends, and sponsors 
strategic initiatives related to health, safety, security and environmental matters
• Net Zero Steering Committee  – develops decarbonization targets, operationalizes decarbonization 
approaches and shares best practices across the organization
• Disclosure Committee – oversees the public disclosure of material information
The Board of Directors of Brookfield Corporation (the “Board”) oversees risk management with a focus on more 
significant risks, and leverages management’s monitoring processes. The Board has delegated responsibility for 
oversight of specific risks to the following board committees:
• Risk Management Committee  – oversees the management of Brookfield’s significant financial and non-
financial risk exposures, including review of risk assessment and risk management practices, and confirms that 
the company has an appropriate risk-taking philosophy and suitable risk capacity
• Audit Committee – oversees the management of risks related to Brookfield’s financial reporting systems and 
procedures, as well as for associated internal and external audit processes
• Management Resources and Compensation Committee – oversees risks related to Brookfield’s management 
resource planning, including succession planning, executive compensation and senior executives’ performance
• Governance and Nominating Committee  – oversees risks related to Brookfield’s governance structure, 
including the effectiveness of board and committee activities, potential conflicts of interest, and governance of 
sustainability initiatives
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 35

SUSTAINABILITY
SUSTAINABILITY AT BROOKFIELD
We believe that value creation and sustainable business practices are complementary goals. We draw on our 100+ 
year heritage as an owner and operator to invest for value and seek to generate strong returns for our clients 
across economic cycles. Our investment strategy has remained unchanged throughout our firm’s history—we focus 
on utilizing our operational expertise to enhance long-term value through strategic and operational improvements 
within our Operating Businesses and portfolio companies. Our primary objective is to deliver strong risk-adjusted 
returns without compromise to our fiduciary duty. 
Our Sustainability Policy outlines our approach and is based on the following guiding principles:
Mitigate the impact of our operations on the environment
• Strive to minimize the environmental impact of operations and improve efficient use of resources over time.
• Support the ambition of reaching net-zero greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions by 2050 or sooner.
Strive to ensure the well-being and safety of employees
• Foster a positive work environment based on respect for human rights, valuing diversity and having zero 
tolerance for workplace discrimination, violence or harassment.
• Operate with leading health and safety practices to support the goal of achieving zero serious safety incidents.
Uphold strong governance practices
• Operate to the highest ethical standards by conducting business activities in accordance with our Code of 
Business Conduct and Ethics.
• Maintain strong stakeholder relationships through transparency and active engagement.
Be good corporate citizens
• Strive to ensure the interests, safety and well-being of the communities in which we operate are integrated into 
our business decisions.
• Support philanthropy and volunteerism by our employees.
Our global sustainability policy codifies our longstanding strategy of integrating sustainability considerations into 
our decision-making. This policy is reviewed at least annually and, where applicable, updated periodically by our 
senior executives, as well as each of our business groups. 
Sustainability Affiliations and Partnerships
Through our engagement with sustainability frameworks and organizations, we continue to evolve our sustainability 
reporting and protocols to align with leading practices. The following are some of the frameworks and organizations 
with which we are affiliated:
• Principles for Responsible Investment (“PRI”) – We have been signatories to the PRI since 2020 and complete the 
PRI assessment annually, which reinforces our longstanding commitment to responsible investment and 
sustainability best practices. 
• IFRS Sustainability Alliance – We are members of the IFRS Sustainability Alliance, a global program established 
to develop globally accepted accounting and sustainability disclosures. 
36 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

We review all of our memberships with external organizations periodically or in the event of material changes in 
their strategy or operations to determine if they continue to be aligned with our objectives.
Sustainability Organization and Governance
Upholding robust sustainability programs throughout our firm, business groups, and encouraging our portfolio 
companies to do the same, remains an important priority. We understand that good governance is essential to 
sustainable business operations. The oversight of sustainability is integrated into our overall governance framework 
and is aligned with our governance approach. We are committed to upholding strong practices to monitor and 
oversee our business, including our overall approach to sustainability.
Our Board of Directors (the “Board”) is focused on maintaining strong corporate governance and prioritizing the 
interests of our shareholders. The Board oversees our business, including reviewing major strategic initiatives and 
receiving progress reports on the firm’s sustainability initiatives throughout the year.
Our approach to sustainability has sponsorship and oversight from each business group’s CEO and sustainability 
leads, supported by senior executives, including the Chief Operating Officer (COO) of Brookfield (Governance, 
Operations and Risk Management) and the CEO of Renewable Power & Transition (Decarbonization and 
Investment), working in collaboration with our Chief Financial Officer (CFO) (GHG Reporting and Measurement). 
Since sustainability covers a significant range of priorities that are varied in scope, we believe that sustainability 
initiatives should be overseen by individuals closest to the particular business activity. Functional leads are 
responsible for developing, implementing and monitoring relevant sustainability factors within their functional area, 
such as Technology Services and Human Resources. 
Management teams and committees, including the Decarbonization Steering Committee and Safety Leadership 
Committee, bring together expertise to address key sustainability areas. This focuses on proper application and 
coordination of approaches across our business and functional groups. We organize working groups dedicated to 
specialized areas, such as the Sustainability Working Group and Decarbonization Operational Committee, to 
develop and coordinate initiatives to advance our overall sustainability efforts. 
Integrating Sustainability into Our Investment Process
As part of our due diligence over investments where we have control or significant influence, we seek to assess 
sustainability-related opportunities and risks and factor them into the overall investment decision. This includes 
leveraging industry guidance to identify sustainability factors most likely to materially impact the financial condition 
or operating performance of companies in a sector. As part of our Sustainability Due Diligence Protocol, we provide 
specific guidance to investment teams on assessing bribery and corruption, cybersecurity, health and safety, human 
rights modern slavery and climate-related risks. Where warranted, we perform deeper due diligence, working with 
internal and third-party experts as appropriate.
Investments, other than de-minimis or follow on investments, must be approved by the applicable Investment 
Committee. Investment teams present the Investment Committee with the merits of the transaction, its material 
risks, mitigants and significant opportunities for improvement, including sustainability aspects and their 
implications for investment returns. 
As part of each acquisition, investment teams develop a customized integration plan that encompasses, among 
other items, significant sustainability-related matters for evaluation or implementation. We believe there is a strong 
correlation between managing these considerations appropriately and enhancing investment returns. 
Consistent with our management approach, it is the responsibility of management teams within each portfolio 
company to manage sustainability opportunities and risks through the investment’s life cycle, supported by our 
applicable investment teams. The combination of local accountability and expertise along with our investment and 
operating experience and insight is important when managing a wide range of asset types across jurisdictions. We 
leverage these capabilities in collaborating on sustainability initiatives, where appropriate, to drive returns. Where 
appropriate, we encourage our portfolio companies to organize training on a variety of sustainability matters for 
relevant staff.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 37

Management teams regularly report to their respective boards of directors from both financial and operating 
perspectives, including key performance indicators that incorporate material sustainability factors, such as health 
and safety, compliance with regulatory requirements, environmental management, and, increasingly, GHG 
emissions.
For investments where we do not have a controlling interest, for example, where we are a debt holder or in other 
circumstances where we do not have the ability to exercise influence through our contractual rights, we actively 
monitor the performance of our investments and, where appropriate, utilize our stewardship and engagement 
practices to encourage sustainability outcomes that are aligned with our sustainability approach.
When preparing an asset for divestiture, we seek to outline potential value creation deriving from several different 
factors, including relevant sustainability considerations. Where applicable, we also prepare both qualitative and 
quantitative data that summarize the sustainability performance of the investment and provide a holistic 
understanding of how we managed the investment during the holding period.
Stewardship and Engagement
In managing our assets, we leverage our significant influence and operating capabilities to collaborate with our 
portfolio companies. We encourage sound sustainability practices that are essential for building resilient and 
profitable businesses, aiming to create long-term value for our investors and stakeholders. Due to the operational 
nature of our value creation methods, we focus on investing in private markets where we can often acquire 
controlling interests, or positions of significant influence, in order to deploy our operations-oriented investment 
strategies. 
As a result, proxy voting does not represent a significant portion of our investment activities. The majority of our 
proxy voting occurs within Brookfield’s Public Securities Group, which represents a very small portion of our overall 
business (approximately 1% of our AUM as of December 31, 2024).
The following is a summary of some of the sustainability initiatives that we undertook in 2024.
ENVIRONMENTAL
Emissions Reduction Initiatives
As the world is transitioning to a lower-carbon economy, we view emissions reduction as a material value-creation 
opportunity. In 2021, we set an ambition to reach net zero by 2050 or sooner across operationally managed 
investments. Our net-zero ambition targets assets and investments where we can directly influence outcomes—
termed Operationally Managed Investments—or those already pursuing a transition strategy for economic benefit. 
In selecting which of these assets are capable of making meaningful progress toward decarbonization targets, we 
prioritize Operationally Managed Investments where:
• We consider such decarbonization steps will add value over the life of the investment;
• We can operationally manage the outcomes; and
• We are able to identify and implement actionable initiatives in the near term.
Driving efficiency and, consequently, value is a cornerstone of our operations-oriented approach to investing. 
Therefore, we would expect the quantity and timing of GHG emissions reductions of our portfolio companies over 
time to be slightly ahead of industry and regional averages. While we view decarbonization as a meaningful 
operational efficiency lever, we acknowledge that transitioning to a net zero future is an ambition that is subject to 
many unknowns and uncertainties, including the future availability of required technologies, such as the need for 
greater battery storage capacity to support the introduction of greater intermittent renewable energy within 
electricity grids. Despite these challenges, we work with our portfolio companies to identify operational value-
enhancement and decarbonization opportunities, including areas such as energy efficiency and electrification 
measures, amongst others, where our operations teams can work closely with senior management of our portfolio 
companies to support the implementation of these value-enhancing improvements. In doing so, we are supporting 
38 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

our portfolio companies in maximizing their value, while also achieving their decarbonization potential. This 
contributes to a future lower emissions economy, while delivering strong risk-adjusted returns for our investors. 
We eschew firm-wide policies purporting to exclude industries or sectors for investment across the energy 
landscape, including in respect of fossil-fuel-based generation, transportation, and distribution. Nor do we believe in 
divestment of high-emitting industries. We believe that there is significant value in supporting decarbonization 
initiatives of the highest-emitting industries where we can deliver the greatest level of impact. 
Leveraging our leading capabilities in development and operation of renewable power over the last 30 years, we 
launched our inaugural Brookfield Global Transition Fund (“BGTF I”), raising $15 billion of capital in 2022. This 
transition strategy focuses on building renewable power, providing capital to other decarbonization solutions, and 
targeting high-emission sectors to help businesses transition to sustainable business models and drive long-term 
value. Following BGTF I’s success, we launched BGTF II in 2023, which is expected to surpass the scale of its 
predecessor. 
Our investments in BGTF I and II aim to deliver strong risk-adjusted financial returns and meaningful 
decarbonization impacts. These funds seek to invest in clean energy expansion, sustainable solutions (i.e., carbon 
capture and storage, waste recycling), and transforming companies in carbon-intensive sectors to more sustainable 
and value accretive business models. 
Beyond our global transition fund strategy, we do not limit our investments to those that meet specific sustainability 
criteria or standards. Through the expertise developed within our global transition strategy, we can offer resources 
and tools to help companies better identify operational value-enhancement and decarbonization opportunities. 
Across all investments, we invest capital on behalf of our clients with the primary objective of delivering strong risk-
adjusted returns. 
Water, Waste & Biodiversity
Reducing the impact of our overall water consumption and waste generation helps build efficient systems, resiliency 
in our businesses and contributes to a sustainable future. We seek to utilize leading practices to efficiently monitor 
water usage and for certain portfolio companies, manage performance, with the objective to seek opportunities for 
water consumption reduction. In addition, we seek to adhere to all applicable local and regional waste regulations 
and track waste and recycling metrics. Encouraging the conservation of nature and its associated living organisms 
and ecosystem services is an important component in achieving our decarbonization goals and managing physical 
risks related to climate change.
SOCIAL
Culture Matters: Human Capital Development
Our people are our most important asset. The core values of collaboration, entrepreneurship and discipline 
underpin our firmwide culture. We invest in our people and prepare them for future leadership. Our firmwide 
culture, from our dealings with clients to the interactions among employees and executives, is defined by mutual 
respect, teamwork and passion, and revolves around our core values: 
• Collaboration: Leadership works side by side with colleagues throughout the organization and is committed 
to achieving shared success. One of the key attributes that we screen carefully for in new hires is their 
aptitude to collaborate with others. The firm wants people to share information across groups and take an 
interest in all the businesses, not just the one they happen to work for at any particular point in time. We 
do not hire people just for a specific job; we hire for the potential of all the future positions they might hold 
and that will contribute to the broader success of the firm. We actively look for people who want to learn, 
grow, and develop—and demonstrate a willingness to be stretched outside their comfort zone.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 39

• Entrepreneurship: Our flat organization is results-oriented—responsibility is earned based on initiative and 
hard work, rather than job title—and decisions are made close to the action. This principle is not 
uncommon, but we have encouraged our entrepreneurial spirit throughout our growth during the past 20 
years. We look for employees who have a passion not only for what they do but also for what the firm does. 
The shared values of ownership extend beyond helping the company succeed or generate more revenue. It 
means caring about the little things as well, such as not wasting money and treating everyone with respect.
• Discipline: Our team shares an awareness of, and commitment to, our goal of generating superior long-term 
returns for investors. Discipline also requires that each person is expected to have a realistic understanding 
of his or her own abilities. We expect employees to understand their strengths, recognize their weaknesses, 
be willing to stretch outside their comfort zones, and be willing to ask for help when necessary.
The three attributes—collaboration, entrepreneurship, and discipline—form the foundation of Brookfield and have 
been critical to the success of the partnership in building relationships that are long-lasting and mutually rewarding. 
By hiring talented people and giving them opportunities to move into different businesses, we have been able to 
build our expertise into a broad ecosystem that facilitates collaboration across different areas and geographies as 
needed. The teams draw on sound data and expertise to identify emergent themes—informing their investment 
process and enabling us to draw upon actionable intelligence for the benefit of its investors.
Employee Composition
The composition and makeup of our employee base is indicative of our focus that, as we grow, our people reflect 
the communities in which we operate. We recognize that a workforce encompassing a variety of backgrounds is 
critical to our success. A diverse workforce not only reinforces our core principles of long-term focus, alignment of 
interests, and collaboration, but also provides for a more dynamic and interesting work environment. 
We are committed to a hiring process that is objective, nondiscriminatory and in compliance with all applicable 
legislation and good governance. It is grounded in our commitment to provide equal employment opportunity with 
the objective of attracting the highest-qualified talent to our business. We proactively recruit people who align with 
the attributes of a Brookfield leader and have the potential to develop within our organization. Our succession 
process focuses on the development of early career candidates through stretch roles and exposure.
Occupational Health and Safety
Managing health and safety risk is an integral part of the management of our business. Our goal is to have zero 
serious safety incidents. 
We have implemented a health and safety governance initiative to propagate a strong health and safety culture, 
encourage the sharing of best practices and support the continuous improvement of safety performance to help 
eliminate serious safety incidents. The initiative is overseen by the Safety Leadership Committee, which comprises 
senior operations executives from across our business groups and regions. Portfolio company management is 
responsible for ensuring that their company’s health and safety policies and systems are developed, 
operationalized, and reviewed regularly to address their specific risk areas. Portfolio company CEOs are accountable 
for the safety performance of their companies and they report to their respective board of directors on this safety 
performance, safety incidents, and the status of improvement initiatives. Reports on overall health and safety 
trends and key initiatives are provided to the Board as part of the quarterly operational risk update.
Human Rights and Modern Slavery
Regarding human rights, we are committed to conducting our business in an ethical and responsible manner, 
including by carrying out our activities in a manner that respects fundamental human rights and supports the 
prevention of human rights violations within our business. We strive to embed this into our core business activities, 
including training, communications, contracts and due diligence processes set out in our Human Rights and Anti-
Modern Slavery Policy (“Human Rights Policy”), Sustainability Due Diligence Protocol and Vendor Management 
Program.
40 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

Integrity, fairness and respect are hallmarks of our culture, including carrying out our activities by respecting 
fundamental human rights and our efforts to identify and prevent human rights violations within our business and 
supply chain. We are committed to policies aimed at maintaining a workplace free of discrimination, violence and 
harassment, and we expect our staff to act in a way which promotes a positive working environment. Our Human 
Rights Policy aims to codify our approach to minimizing the risk of modern slavery within our business and supply 
chain. We also have specific processes aimed at identifying human rights and modern slavery as part of due 
diligence for new investments, which include risk assessments, remedies, training and governance. Where 
appropriate, these processes give consideration to the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development 
(“OECD”) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights as part of our due diligence process and ongoing management.
In addition, our Human Rights Policy consolidates the relevant commitments set out in our Code of Conduct, 
Sustainability Policy, financial crimes policies, and Whistleblowing Policy. We have several additional policies and 
procedures that provide guidance on the identification of human rights and modern slavery risks and the steps to 
be taken to mitigate these risks. 
GOVERNANCE
Strong governance is essential to sustainable business operations, and we aim to conduct our business according to 
high ethical and legal standards. 
Sustainability Regulation and Frameworks
Our governance practices are the foundation upon which we operate our business. We continuously adapt and 
enhance our policies to meet evolving standards and regulations across jurisdictions in which we operate.
Data Privacy and Cybersecurity
Data privacy and cybersecurity remain key sustainability focus areas for us. We undertake initiatives to further 
enhance our data protection and threat-intelligence capabilities, and to improve our third-party risk management 
processes. We review and update our cybersecurity program at least annually and conduct regular external-party 
assessments of our program maturity based on the National Institute of Standards and Technology (“NIST”) 
Cybersecurity Framework. Additionally, we have continued mandatory cybersecurity education for all employees 
and enhanced our phishing simulations to include more advanced simulations and social engineering. 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 41

PART 2
REVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL RESULTS
The following section contains a discussion and analysis of line items presented within our consolidated financial 
statements. The financial data in this section has been prepared in accordance with IFRS Accounting Standards as 
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”). Starting on page 55, we provide an overview of our 
fair value accounting process and why we believe it provides useful information for investors about our 
performance. We also provide an overview of our application of the control-based model under IFRS Accounting 
Standards used to determine whether or not an investment should be consolidated. 
OVERVIEW
During 2024, net income was supported by strong fundraising momentum and capital deployment in our Asset 
Management business, recent acquisitions, organic growth, and strong investment performance in our Wealth 
Solutions business, and the stable and resilient cash flows of our Operating Businesses.
Net income was $1.9 billion in the current year, with $641 million attributable to common shareholders 
($0.31 per share) and $1.2 billion attributable to non-controlling interests.
The $3.3 billion decrease in net income over the prior year was primarily attributable to:
• same-store
1 
growth, primarily from inflation-linked revenues and organic growth initiatives across our 
Infrastructure and Renewable Power and Transition segments, lease commencements and higher market rents 
in our core portfolio within our Real Estate segment, as well as increased demand for higher margin advanced 
batteries at our advanced energy storage operation within our Private Equity segment;
• contributions from recent acquisitions, net of dispositions in our Infrastructure segment;
• the recognition of tax benefits at our advanced energy storage operation within our Private Equity segment; 
and
• an increase in equity accounted income of $661 million due to increased contributions from the growth in our 
Wealth Solutions business, and our share of increases on the value of certain investment properties within our 
Real Estate and Infrastructure segments; more than offset by
• a decrease in other income and gains of $5.3 billion primarily due to higher disposition gains in the prior year, 
including a $3.9 billion gain on the deconsolidation of our nuclear technology services operation in our Private 
Equity segment;
• a decrease in fair value changes of $1.1 billion, primarily related to the impairment of goodwill at our healthcare 
services operation and the settlement of a legacy pre-acquisition litigation at our dealer software and 
technology services operation, both within our Private Equity segment, as well as increased debt amortization 
costs in our Infrastructure segment, and the absence of mark-to-market gains included in the prior year at our 
Spanish solar energy business upon the step-up of our investment within our Renewable Power and Transition 
segment;
• an increase in interest expense of $1.1 billion, of which $319 million related to incremental debt from recent 
acquisitions, $680 million from asset-level upfinancing, and $131 million from higher rates on corporate 
borrowings, partially offset by the impact of lower rates on variable debt obligations of $18 million; and
• higher depreciation and amortization expense primarily as a result of recently completed acquisitions within 
our Infrastructure and Renewable Power and Transition segments.
1. See definition in Glossary of Terms beginning on page 134.
42 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

Our consolidated balance sheet remained in line with prior year as assets acquired, net of liabilities were offset by 
the deconsolidation of Brookfield Strategic Real Estate Partners IV (“BSREP IV”)
 
within our LP investment. Following 
the completion of the partial sale of BSREP IV to BWS, our investment in BSREP IV was deconsolidated and 
recognized within equity accounted investments. BN was issued additional Class C shares in BWS as consideration 
for the acquisition by BWS.
INCOME STATEMENT ANALYSIS
The following table summarizes the financial results of the company for 2024, 2023 and 2022:
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
Change
2024 2023 2022
2024 vs. 
2023
2023 vs. 
2022
Revenues       ............................................................................... $ 86,006 $ 95,924 $ 92,769 $ (9,918) $ 3,155 
Direct costs
1
      ..........................................................................  (67,936)  (81,409)  (78,511)  13,473  (2,898) 
Other income and gains    .....................................................  1,247  6,501  1,594  (5,254)  4,907 
Equity accounted income   ...................................................  2,729  2,068  2,613  661  (545) 
Expenses
Interest   ................................................................................  (16,615)  (15,503)  (10,702)  (1,112)  (4,801) 
Corporate costs      .................................................................  (76)  (69)  (122)  (7)  53 
Fair value changes      ...............................................................  (2,520)  (1,396)  (977)  (1,124)  (419) 
Income tax expense    ............................................................  (982)  (1,011)  (1,469)  29  458 
Net income    ..........................................................................  1,853  5,105  5,195  (3,252)  (90) 
Non-controlling interests     ...................................................  (1,212)  (3,975)  (3,139)  2,763  (836) 
Net income attributable to shareholders   ................. $ 641 $ 1,130 $ 2,056 $ (489) $ (926) 
Net income per share      ...................................................... $ 0.31 $ 0.61 $ 1.19 $ (0.30) $ (0.58) 
1. Direct costs include $9.7 billion of depreciation and amortization expense for the year ended December 31, 2024 (2023 – $9.1 billion; 2022 – 
$7.7 billion). 
2024 vs. 2023
Revenues for the year were $86.0 billion, a decrease of $9.9 billion or 10% compared to 2023, primarily due to:
• higher revenues from lease commencements and higher rents on core properties, within our Real Estate 
segment;
• increased contributions from our Infrastructure segment due to organic growth as a result of inflation 
indexation and rate base increases, and from our Renewable Power and Transition segment due to 
commissioning of recent development projects;
• strong same-store results from our Private Equity segment due to increased demand for higher margin 
advanced batteries at our advanced energy storage operation; more than offset by
• the absence of contributions from recent net dispositions, primarily due to the sale of our road fuels operation 
in the third quarter of 2024 and the deconsolidation of our nuclear technology services operation in the fourth 
quarter of 2023, both within our Private Equity segment.
A discussion of the impact on revenues and net income from recent acquisitions and dispositions can be found on 
page 46.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 43

Direct costs decreased by 17% or $13.5 billion, primarily due to:
• the impact of the sale of our road fuels operation in the third quarter of 2024 and the deconsolidation of our 
nuclear technology services operation in the fourth quarter of 2023, as well as lower direct costs at our 
advanced energy storage operation due to the recognition of tax benefits, all within our Private Equity segment; 
partially offset by
• increased costs due to inflation and organic growth within our Infrastructure segment; and 
• higher direct costs related to recent acquisitions primarily within our Renewable Power and Transition and 
Infrastructure segments. 
Other income and gains of $1.2 billion primarily relate to the gains on the sale of our road fuels operation and the 
deconsolidation of our payment processing services operation, both within our Private Equity segment. The other 
income and gains in 2023 is primarily attributable to the gains on the deconsolidation of our nuclear technology 
services operation within our Private Equity segment and our New Zealand data distribution business within our 
Infrastructure segment.
Equity accounted income increased by $661 million primarily due to contributions from the acquisition of AEL in our 
Wealth Solutions business, as well as our share of increases in the value of certain investment properties within our 
Real Estate and Infrastructure segments, partially offset by mark-to-market changes related to insurance reserves 
within our Wealth Solutions business.   
Interest expense of $16.6 billion, of which $15.9 billion relates to non-recourse financing, increased by $1.1 billion 
compared to 2023 due to incremental borrowings associated with acquisitions, net of dispositions, and refinancings 
primarily within our Infrastructure and Renewable Power and Transition segments, partially offset by the impact of 
lower interest rates on floating rate debt.
We recorded fair value decreases of $2.5 billion compared to $1.4 billion in the prior year. The decrease is primarily 
due to:
• valuation increases at certain U.S retail assets in our core portfolio within our Real Estate segment as a result of 
updated leasing assumptions; and 
• realization of investment tax benefits within our Renewable Power and Transition segment; more than offset by
• the absence of mark-to-market gains included in the prior year at our Spanish solar energy business upon the 
step-up of our investment within our Renewable Power and Transition segment and on our investment in a U.S. 
department store chain within our Real Estate segment;
• settlement of a legacy pre-acquisition litigation at our dealer software and technology services operation, as 
well as impairment of goodwill at our healthcare services operation and asset impairment at our natural gas 
production operation, all within our Private Equity segment; and
• increased debt amortization costs at our global intermodal container logistics operation within our 
Infrastructure segment. 
Refer to pages 47 and 48 for a discussion on fair value changes.
We recorded an income tax expense of $982 million for the year compared to $1.0 billion in the prior year mainly 
due to lower taxable income in 2024 in our Private Equity segment and the realization of tax benefits within our 
Renewable Power and Transition segment; partially offset by lower deferred tax recoveries due to higher valuation 
gains in our real estate portfolio compared to the prior year.
44 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

2023 vs. 2022
Revenues increased by $3.2 billion in 2023 primarily due to:
• increased contributions from our Infrastructure segment due to organic growth as a result of inflation 
indexation and rate base increases; 
• higher revenues from lease commencements in our core properties within our Real Estate segment;
• additions to revenues from our Renewable Power and Transition segment due to higher realized pricing and 
inflation indexation on contracts; and
• revenues from recent acquisitions, net of dispositions, primarily within our Infrastructure and Private Equity 
segments; partially offset by
• lower volumes and unfavourable pricing at our road fuels operation within our Private Equity segment and 
lower hydrology in Canada and Colombia from our Renewable Power and Transition segment.
Direct costs increased by $2.9 billion in 2023 primarily due to:
• lower fuel inventory costs at our road fuels operation and the impact of the deconsolidation of our nuclear 
technology services operation within our Private Equity segment; more than offset by
• increased costs associated with inflation and organic growth within our Infrastructure and Renewable Power 
and Transition segments; and
• higher direct costs related to acquisitions, net of dispositions.
Other income and gains of $6.5 billion in 2023 primarily relate to the gains on the deconsolidation of our nuclear 
technology services operation within our Private Equity segment and our New Zealand data distribution business 
within our Infrastructure segment. The other income and gains in 2022 is primarily attributable to the gains on the 
sale of a Brazil power transmissions portfolio and North American container terminal operations within our 
Infrastructure segment.
Equity accounted income decreased by $545 million as increased contributions from the growth in our Wealth 
Solutions business were more than offset by our share of decreases in the value of certain investment properties.
Interest expense of $15.5 billion in 2023 of which $14.9 billion relates to non-recourse financing, increased by 
$4.8  billion compared to 2022 due to incremental borrowings associated with acquisitions, net of dispositions, 
refinancings, and the impact of higher interest rates on floating rate debt during 2023.
We recorded fair value decreases of $1.4 billion in 2023 compared to $977 million in the prior year. Valuation 
increases from mark-to-market gains on our U.S. department store chain and higher valuations within our LP 
investments were more than offset by lower valuations on certain U.S. office assets within our Real Estate segment, 
as well as the impairment of goodwill at our healthcare services operation and asset impairment at our natural gas 
production, both within our Private Equity segment.
Income tax expense decreased by $458 million in 2023, mainly due to higher deferred tax recoveries resulting from 
valuation changes in our real estate portfolio, partially offset by higher taxable income in 2023, mainly in our 
Infrastructure and Private Equity segments.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 45

SIGNIFICANT ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS
We have summarized below the impact of recent significant acquisitions and dispositions on our results for 2024:
Acquisitions Dispositions
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DEC. 31, 2024
(MILLIONS) Revenue
Net
Income (Loss) Revenue
Net
Income (Loss)
Renewable Power and Transition      ......... $ 694 $ (26) $ (34) $ (4) 
Infrastructure     ..........................................  2,448  324  (187)  (55) 
Private Equity     .............................................  62  —  (13,637)  165 
Real Estate and Other ..............................  255  157  (265)  (169) 
$ 3,459 $ 455 $ (14,123) $ (63) 
ACQUISITIONS
Recent acquisitions contributed incremental revenues of $3.5 billion and net income of $455 million in the current 
year.
Renewable Power and Transition
Within our Renewable Power and Transition segment, recent acquisitions contributed to incremental revenues of 
$694 million and a net loss of $26 million. These contributions were primarily due to the acquisitions of a U.S. 
renewable portfolio and an Indian renewable development platform, both acquired in the fourth quarter of 2023.
Infrastructure
Recent acquisitions contributed incremental revenues of $2.4 billion and net income of $324 million. These 
contributions were primarily from our acquisitions of a global intermodal container logistics operation in the third 
quarter of 2023, a North American retail colocation data center business in the first quarter of 2024, and an Indian 
telecom tower operation in the third quarter of 2024.
Real Estate and Other
Recent acquisitions contributed incremental revenues of $255 million and net income of $157 million, primarily 
from the acquisitions of a multifamily asset portfolio and a logistics portfolio in the U.S in the second and third 
quarters of 2024, respectively.
DISPOSITIONS
Recent asset sales reduced revenues and net income by $14.1 billion and $63 million in the year, respectively. The 
transactions that most significantly impacted our results were the disposition of our road fuels operation in the 
third quarter of 2024 and the deconsolidation of our nuclear technology services operation in the fourth quarter of 
2023, both within our Private Equity segment. Our nuclear technology services operation is now presented as an 
equity accounted investment based on our continued ownership interest through our Renewable Power and 
Transition segment. 
46 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

FAIR VALUE CHANGES
The following table disaggregates fair value changes into major components to facilitate analysis: 
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023 Change
Investment properties      ................................................................................................................ $ 556 $ (105) $ 661 
Transaction related income, net of expenses ........................................................................  143  (608)  751 
Financial contracts     .......................................................................................................................  857  337  520 
Impairment and provisions     .......................................................................................................  (2,404)  (1,276)  (1,128) 
Other fair value changes   ............................................................................................................  (1,672)  256  (1,928) 
Total fair value changes    .............................................................................................................. $ (2,520) $ (1,396) $ (1,124) 
INVESTMENT PROPERTIES
Investment properties are recorded at fair value with changes recorded in net income. We present the investment 
properties based on our strategy to maintain an irreplaceable portfolio of premier properties in global gateway 
cities (“core”), maximize returns through a development or buy-fix-sell strategy (“transitional and development”), or 
recycle capital from private real estate funds of our Asset Management business (“real estate LP investments”).
The following table disaggregates investment property fair value changes within our Real Estate and Asset 
Management segments by asset type:
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023 Change
Asset Management Direct Investments – Real Estate LP Investments   ............................ $ 855 $ 1,266 $ (411) 
Real Estate – Core    .........................................................................................................................  214  (226)  440 
Real Estate – Transitional and Development  .........................................................................  (661)  (1,225)  564 
Other investment properties   .....................................................................................................  148  80  68 
$ 556 $ (105) $ 661 
We discuss the key valuation inputs of our investment properties beginning on page 99. 
Real Estate LP Investments
Valuation increases of $855 million primarily relate to: 
• higher valuations in our India office and REIT portfolios due to higher occupancy rates; and 
• fair value uplifts in our Australian senior living portfolio due to higher unit prices; partially offset by
• valuation decreases at certain U.S. retail assets due to updated leasing assumptions.
In the prior year, valuation increases of $1.3 billion primarily related to fair value uplifts in our U.S. logistics portfolio 
due to favourable market rent assumptions, higher valuations in our Australian senior living portfolio due to unit 
price uplifts, and higher occupancy rates at our Shanghai mixed use portfolio, partially offset by discount and  
capitalization rate expansion at certain European office assets.
Core 
Valuation increases of $214 million were primarily due to higher cash flows at certain U.S. retail assets as a result of 
updated leasing assumptions, partially offset by capitalization rate expansion at a certain U.K. office asset.
Valuations decreases of $226 million in the prior year were mainly due to updated leasing assumptions at certain 
U.S. office assets, and capitalization rate expansion at certain U.K. office and U.S. retail assets.
Transitional and Development
Valuation decreases of $661 million were primarily due to updated leasing assumptions at certain U.S. office and 
retail assets.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 47

Valuation decreases of $1.2 billion in the prior year primarily related to discount and capitalization rate expansion 
and updated leasing assumptions at certain U.S. office assets.
Other investment properties
Other valuation gains of $148 million were primarily due to higher valuations at our European hyperscale data 
center platform as a result of updated market assumptions within our Infrastructure segment.
Transaction Related Income, Net of Expenses
Transaction related income, net of expenses, totaled $143 million for the year. This is primarily due to a bargain 
purchase gain on the acquisition of our North American retail colocation data center business within our 
Infrastructure segment, partially offset by restructuring costs within our Private Equity segment and transaction 
costs on acquisitions within our Real Estate segment.
The prior year transaction related expenses, net of income, of $608 million were mostly due to restructuring costs 
within our Private Equity segment, and transaction costs on acquisitions within our Infrastructure segment and 
upfinancings across our businesses.
Financial Contracts
Financial contracts include mark-to-market gains and losses related to foreign currency, interest rate and pricing 
derivatives not designated in hedge accounting relationships.
Financial contracts drove a $857 million increase in fair value changes for the year, mostly attributable to realization 
of investment tax credits and mark-to-market gains on energy derivatives, tax equity and financial assets, all within 
our Renewable Power and Transition segment.
The increase of $337 million in the prior year is mainly attributable to mark-to-market gains on energy derivatives, 
tax equity and power contracts within our Renewable Power and Transition segment.
Impairment and Provisions
Impairment and provisions expense of $2.4 billion in the year are primarily related to the impairment of goodwill at 
our healthcare services operation and asset impairment at our natural gas production operation, as well as the 
settlement of a legacy pre-acquisition litigation at our dealer software and technology services operation, all within 
our Private Equity segment.
Impairment and provisions expense of $1.3 billion in the prior year are mostly related to the impairment of goodwill 
at our healthcare services operation and asset impairment at our natural gas production operation, both within our 
Private Equity segment.
Other Fair Value Changes
Other fair value decreases of $1.7 billion for the year are primarily attributable to debt amortization costs at our 
global intermodal container logistics operation and U.S. semiconductor manufacturing facility, and non-controlling 
interests’ share of valuation increases at our Indian telecom tower operation, all within our Infrastructure segment, 
as well as non-controlling interests’ share of Australia senior living and India REIT valuation gains within our LP 
investments.
Other fair value increases of $256 million in the prior year are mainly attributable to mark-to-market gains on our 
investment in a U.S. department store chain within our Real Estate segment and at our Spanish solar energy 
business in our Renewable Power and Transition segment upon the step-up of our investment. These gains were 
partially offset by the disposition through a distribution in kind of our graphite electrode operation within our 
Private Equity segment, as well as mark-to-market changes on inventory at a natural gas storage asset in our 
Infrastructure segment.
48 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

INCOME TAXES
We recorded an aggregate income tax expense of $982 million in 2024 (2023 – $1.0 billion), including current tax 
expenses of $1.3 billion (2023 – $1.9 billion) and a deferred tax recovery of $341 million (2023 – $897 million).
Our income tax provision does not include a number of non-income taxes paid that are recorded elsewhere in our 
consolidated financial statements. For example, a number of our operations in Brazil are required to pay non-
recoverable taxes on revenue, which are included in direct costs as opposed to income taxes. In addition, we pay 
considerable property, payroll and other taxes that represent an important component of the tax base in the 
jurisdictions in which we operate, which are also predominantly recorded in direct costs.
Our effective income tax rate is different from the Canadian domestic statutory income tax rate due to the following 
differences:
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31 2024 2023 Change
Statutory income tax rate     ..................................................................................................................     26%  26%     —% 
(Reduction)/increase in rate resulting from:
Portion of gains subject to different tax rates ............................................................................  (15)  (8)  (7) 
Taxable loss (income) attributable to non-controlling interests       ............................................  24  (6)  30 
International operations subject to different tax rates ............................................................  1  1  — 
Derecognition (Recognition) of deferred tax assets    .................................................................  (19)  (5)  (14) 
Non-recognition of the benefit of current year tax losses      ......................................................  14  5  9 
Non-deductible expenses   ...............................................................................................................  10  7  3 
Investment and production tax credits    .......................................................................................  (10)  —  (10) 
Other  ....................................................................................................................................................  4  (3)  7 
Effective income tax rate    ....................................................................................................................  35%  17%  18% 
In the current year, we realized gains on disposition that were subject to tax rates different to our statutory income 
tax rate. This contributed to a 15% reduction in our effective tax rate in the current year.
Many of our operations are held in partially owned “flow-through” entities, such as partnerships, where the tax 
liability is incurred by the investors as opposed to the entity. As a result, while our consolidated earnings include 
losses attributable to non-controlling ownership interests in such entities, our consolidated tax provision includes 
only our proportionate share of the associated tax recovery. In other words, we are consolidating all of the income 
and losses in connection with these entities but only our share of the associated tax recovery. This increased our 
effective tax rate by  24% this year.
We operate in countries with different tax rates, most of which vary from our domestic statutory rate, and we also 
benefit from tax incentives introduced in various countries to encourage economic activity. Differences in global tax 
rates resulted in a 1% increase in our effective tax rate this year. The difference will vary from year to year 
depending on the relative proportion of income or loss earned in each country. 
In the current year, we recorded a deferred tax recovery primarily in respect of the recognition of tax attributes in 
our advanced energy storage operation within our Private Equity segment, which decreased our effective tax rate by 
19%. 
Some of our operations generated tax losses in the period for which a tax benefit has not been recognized and 
certain expenses incurred were not deductible for tax purposes resulting in an increase to the effective tax rate of 
14% and 10%, respectively. 
During the year, our Renewable Power and Transition segment realized investment tax credits that resulted in tax 
recoveries. This contributed to a 10% reduction in our effective tax rate.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 49

BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS
The following table summarizes the statements of financial position of the company as at December 31, 2024, 2023, 
and 2022:
Change
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023 2022
2024 vs. 
2023
2023 vs. 
2022
Assets
Property, plant and equipment    ...................................... $ 153,019 $ 147,617 $ 124,268 $ 5,402 $ 23,349 
Investment properties  ......................................................  103,665  124,152  115,100  (20,487)  9,052 
Equity accounted investments  ........................................  68,310  59,124  47,094  9,186  12,030 
Cash and cash equivalents    ..............................................  15,051  11,222  14,396  3,829  (3,174) 
Accounts receivable and other      .......................................  30,218  28,512  27,378  1,706  1,134 
Intangible assets     ................................................................  36,072  38,994  38,411  (2,922)  583 
Goodwill     ...............................................................................  35,730  34,911  28,662  819  6,249 
Other assets     ........................................................................  48,359  45,563  45,975  2,796  (412) 
Total assets   ........................................................................... $ 490,424 $ 490,095 $ 441,284 $ 329 $ 48,811 
Liabilities
Corporate borrowings     ...................................................... $ 14,232 $ 12,160 $ 11,390 $ 2,072 $ 770 
Non-recourse borrowings of managed entities   ..........  220,560  221,550  202,684  (990)  18,866 
Other non-current financial liabilities     ...........................  30,136  29,624  27,679  512  1,945 
Other liabilities     ...................................................................  60,113  58,519  57,640  1,594  879 
Equity
Preferred equity .................................................................  4,103  4,103  4,145  —  (42) 
Non-controlling interests     .................................................  119,406  122,465  98,138  (3,059)  24,327 
Common equity  ..................................................................  41,874  41,674  39,608  200  2,066 
Total equity    ...........................................................................  165,383  168,242  141,891  (2,859)  26,351 
$ 490,424 $ 490,095 $ 441,284 $ 329 $ 48,811 
2024 vs. 2023
Total assets increased by $329 million from the prior year to $490.4 billion as at December 31, 2024. The increase is 
due to recently completed business combinations and asset acquisitions, net of dispositions, primarily within our 
Renewable Power and Transition and Infrastructure segments. Increases in our equity accounted investments, 
primarily related to recent acquisitions within our Renewable Power and Transition segment and incremental 
capital invested in our Wealth Solutions business via BBU units, and BAM shares to support the acquisition of AEL, 
as well as net valuation increases recognized on our property plant and equipment, also contributed to the increase 
in total assets. This was partially offset by the deconsolidation of BSREP IV within our LP investment, as well as 
amortization and depreciation of our asset base and the impacts of foreign currency translation since the beginning 
of the year.
50 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

We have summarized the impact of business combinations for the year ended December 31, 2024 in the table 
below:
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DEC. 31, 2024
(MILLIONS)
Renewable 
Power and 
Transition Infrastructure
Private Equity 
and Other Total
Cash and cash equivalents    ........................................ $ 553 $ 393 $ 4 $ 950 
Accounts receivable and other  .................................  443  283  50  776 
Other financial assets    .................................................  345  294  10  649 
Assets classified as held for sale   ..............................  861  270  —  1,131 
Property, plant and equipment     ...............................  7,439  4,141  77  11,657 
Intangible assets   ..........................................................  —  1,580  52  1,632 
Goodwill .........................................................................  3,556  294  49  3,899 
Deferred income tax assets    ......................................  60  —  —  60 
Total assets    ...................................................................  13,257  7,255  242  20,754 
Less:
Accounts payable and other    ..................................  (1,137)  (2,677)  (41)  (3,855) 
Liabilities associated with assets classified as 
held for sale    ...............................................................  (340)  (70)  —  (410) 
Non-recourse borrowings    ......................................  (4,736)  (478)  (14)  (5,228) 
Deferred income tax liabilities   ..............................  (437)  (454)  (10)  (901) 
Non-controlling interests
1
      ......................................  (3,015)  —  (4)  (3,019) 
 (9,665)  (3,679)  (69)  (13,413) 
Net assets acquired   .................................................... $ 3,592 $ 3,576 $ 173 $ 7,341 
1. Includes non-controlling interests recognized on business combinations measured as the proportionate share of fair value of the identifiable 
assets and liabilities on the date of acquisition.
Summarized below are the key contributors to the year-over-year variances for the statement of financial position.
PP&E increased by $5.4 billion primarily as a result of: 
• acquisitions and additions of $24.2  billion, which includes the acquisition of our French renewable portfolio 
within our Renewable Power and Transition segment, our North American retail colocation data center business 
and our Indian telecom operation within our Infrastructure segment, as well as investments in development 
projects within our Renewable Power and Transition segment; and
• revaluation surplus of $8.0 billion primarily attributable to higher power pricing across select markets and the 
expected growth in demand for renewable power within our Renewable Power and Transition segment, as well 
as strong underlying performance from inflation indexation and commissioning of capital projects within our 
Infrastructure segment; partially offset by
• the unfavourable impact of foreign currency translation and other of $7.5 billion due to the appreciation of the 
U.S. dollar against most major currencies, primarily within our Renewable Power and Transition and 
Infrastructure segments;
• depreciation of $7.2 billion during the year;
• dispositions and assets reclassified as held for sale of $7.3 billion; and 
• the impact of the deconsolidation of BSREP IV within our LP investments of $4.8 billion.
We provide a continuity of PP&E in Note 12 of the consolidated financial statements.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 51

Investment properties predominantly consist of the company’s real estate assets. The balance as at December 31, 
2024 decreased by $20.5 billion, primarily due to: 
• acquisitions and additions of $13.2 billion, primarily related to the acquisitions of three U.S. multifamily asset 
portfolios, a U.S. student housing portfolio, and a logistics asset portfolio in Europe, as well as additions, all 
within our LP investments included in our Asset Management segment; more than offset by
• the impact of the deconsolidation of BSREP IV within our LP investments of $24.9 billion;
• asset sales and the reclassification of certain assets to held for sale of $6.5  billion, primarily related to the 
transfer of certain office, retail and logistics assets to held for sale within our Real Estate segment and LP 
investments; and
• the unfavourable impact of foreign currency translation and other of $2.9 billion due to the appreciation of the 
U.S. dollar against most major currencies.
We provide a continuity of investment properties in Note 11 of the consolidated financial statements.
Equity accounted investments increased by $9.2 billion in the year to $68.3 billion, primarily due to:
• additions, net of disposals, of $9.2 billion which mainly related to the acquisition of an offshore wind portfolio in 
the U.K. within our Renewable Power and Transition segment, the conversion of preferred shares in our wealth 
solutions business into common shares in December 2024, incremental capital invested in BWS via the 
contribution of BBU units as well as BAM shares to support the acquisition of AEL, both in exchange for 
additional Class C shares of BWS; and
• our proportionate share of comprehensive income of $4.1 billion; partially offset by 
• distributions and returns of capital received of $2.4 billion; and
• the unfavourable impact of foreign currency translation and other items of $1.7 billion due to the appreciation 
of the U.S. dollar against most major currencies.
We provide a continuity of equity accounted investments in Note 10 of the consolidated financial statements.
Cash and cash equivalents increased by $3.8 billion. For further information, refer to our Consolidated Statements 
of Cash  Flows and to the Review of Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows within Part 4 – Capitalization 
and Liquidity.
Our intangible assets decreased by $2.9 billion as the acquisitions of our North American retail colocation data 
center and our Indian telecom tower operation within our Infrastructure segment were more than offset by the 
unfavourable impact of amortization and foreign currency translation within our Private Equity and Infrastructure 
segments.
Our goodwill increased by $819 million primarily due to the acquisition of our French renewable portfolio within our 
Renewable Power and Transition segment, partially offset by impairment of goodwill at our healthcare services 
operation, the deconsolidation of our payment processing services operation and disposition of our road fuels 
operation, all within our Private Equity segment.
Other assets are comprised of inventory, deferred income tax assets, assets classified as held for sale and other 
financial assets. The increase of $2.8 billion is mainly as a result of:
• an increase in assets held for sale of $7.8 billion largely attributable to the classification to held for sale of a 
1,004 MW portfolio of wind and solar assets in India and a partial interest in 2 GW of pumped storage facilities 
in the U.K., both within our Renewable Power and Transition segment, as well as the shuttle tanker operation in 
our offshore oil services operation within our Private Equity segment, and certain office, retail and logistics 
assets within our Real Estate segment and LP investments, net of dispositions; partially offset by
• a decrease in inventory of $3.0 billion primarily driven by the disposition of our road fuels operation within our 
Private Equity segment and the deconsolidation of BSREP IV within our LP investments; and
52 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

• a decrease in other financial assets of $2.4 billion primarily related to the conversion of preferred shares in our 
Wealth Solutions business into common shares in December 2024, reflected as an increase in equity accounted 
investments.
Corporate borrowings increased by $2.1 billion primarily from the issuance of $750 million of 30-year bonds in 
March 2024, the issuance of $450 million of 10-year bonds and the re-opening of $200 million of 30-year bonds in 
June 2024, as well as the issuance of $700 million 30-year subordinated debt in December 2024, and commercial 
paper issuances throughout the year, partially offset by repayment of maturing term notes. 
Non-recourse borrowings of managed entities decreased by $1.0 billion, primarily due to the deconsolidation of 
BSREP IV within our LP investments, partially offset by acquisitions and upfinancings within our Renewable Power 
and Transition and Infrastructure segments.
Other non-current financial liabilities consist of our subsidiary equity obligations, non-current accounts payable and 
other long-term financial liabilities that are due in more than one year’s time. The increase of $512 million was 
primarily due to an increase in subsidiary equity obligations at our Indian telecom operation within our 
Infrastructure segment.
Other liabilities increased by $1.6 billion primarily due to the aforementioned classification to held for sale of certain 
assets within our Renewable Power and Transition, Private Equity and Real Estate segments, and LP investments, 
partially offset by a decrease in the current portion of accounts payable and other.
2023 vs. 2022
Total assets as at December 31, 2023 were $490.1 billion, compared to $441.3 billion as at December 31, 2022. The 
increase is due to business combinations and asset acquisitions, net of dispositions, mostly in our Infrastructure 
and Renewable Power and Transition segments. Net valuation increases recognized on our PP&E during the year 
also contributed to the increase in total assets. This was partially offset by amortization and depreciation of our 
asset base during the year. Total liabilities increased by $22.5 billion from the prior year to $321.9 billion as at  
December 31, 2023 primarily due to business combinations and asset acquisitions, net of dispositions.
PP&E increased by $23.3 billion primarily as a result of acquisitions and additions, net of dispositions, completed 
across our segments, revaluation surplus largely within our LP investments and Infrastructure segment, as well as 
the positive impact of  foreign currency translation impact, partially offset by depreciation.
Investment properties were $9.1 billion higher at the end of 2023 compared to 2022 primarily driven by additions in 
our Real Estate segment and the acquisition of our European hyperscale data centre platform within our 
Infrastructure segment, partially offset by asset sales and classification of certain assets to held for sale.
Equity accounted investments increased by $12.0 billion primarily due to additions, net of disposals, and our 
proportionate share of comprehensive income, partially offset by distributions and returns of capital received, as 
well as the unfavourable impact of foreign currency translation.
Cash and cash equivalents decreased by $3.2 billion as at December  31, 2023 compared to 2022. For further 
information, refer to our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and to the Review of Consolidated Statements of 
Cash Flows within Part 4 – Capitalization and Liquidity.
Increases of $583 million and $6.2 billion in our intangible assets and goodwill balances, respectively, primarily 
relate to the acquisition of our North American and European residential infrastructure business within our 
Infrastructure segment, partially offset by the deconsolidation of our nuclear technology services operation and 
technology services operation in our Private Equity segment, as well as amortization expense across all segments.
Other assets decreased by $412 million as the increase in other financial assets from acquisitions across our 
segments and growth of our Australian residential mortgage lender within our Private Equity segment were more 
than offset by lower inventory from dispositions within our Private Equity segment.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 53

Corporate borrowings increased by $770 million due to the issuance of $550 million and $700 million 10-year U.S. 
term notes in June and December 2023, respectively, partially offset by the repayment of maturing term notes. 
Non-recourse borrowings increased by $18.9 billion in 2023, primarily due to acquisitions and upfinancings within 
our Infrastructure and Renewable Power and Transition segments, net of borrowings reclassified to held for sale, 
partially offset by the disposition of our nuclear technology services operation within our Private Equity segment.
Other non-current financial liabilities increased by $1.9 billion from 2022, primarily due to acquisitions and 
upfinancings within our Infrastructure and Renewable Power and Transition segments. 
Other liabilities increased by $879 million primarily due to an increase in deferred income tax liabilities mainly as a 
result of acquisitions completed primarily within our Infrastructure and Renewable Power and Transition segments. 
EQUITY
The significant variances in common equity and non-controlling interests are discussed below. Preferred equity is 
discussed in Part 4 – Capitalization and Liquidity. 
COMMON EQUITY
The following table presents the major contributors to the year-over-year variances for common equity:
AS AT AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Common equity, beginning of year  ......................................................................................................... $ 41,674 $ 39,608 
Changes in period
Net income attributable to shareholders   ...........................................................................................  641  1,130 
Other comprehensive income ...............................................................................................................  766  803 
Common dividends  ..................................................................................................................................  (495)  (436) 
Preferred dividends     .................................................................................................................................  (168)  (166) 
Repurchases, net of equity issuances    .................................................................................................  (940)  (580) 
Ownership changes and other   ..............................................................................................................  396  1,315 
 200  2,066 
Common equity, end of year    .................................................................................................................... $ 41,874 $ 41,674 
Common equity increased by $200 million to $41.9 billion during the year, primarily due to:
• net income attributable to common shareholders of $641 million;
• other comprehensive income of $766 million, primarily related to revaluation gains on property, plant and 
equipment within our Renewable Power and Transition and Infrastructure segments, and unrealized mark-to-
market movements on our investment portfolio in our wealth solutions business due to a decrease in interest 
rates, partially offset by foreign currency translation; and 
• ownership changes and other of $396 million primarily related to a gain on the sale of a portion of our interest 
in BAM, which was contributed to our Wealth Solutions business to support the acquisition of AEL, partially 
offset by a reduction in our ownership in BBU following the transfer of a partial interest in this business to our 
Wealth Solutions business in November 2024; partially offset by 
• distributions of $663 million to shareholders as common and preferred share dividends; and
• share repurchases, net of issuances, of $940 million, mainly related to the repurchase of 23.6 million Class A 
Limited Voting Shares (“Class A shares”) during the year.
54 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS
Non-controlling interests in our consolidated results primarily consist of third-party interests in BAM, BEP, BIP, BBU, 
BPG and their consolidated entities as well as co-investors and other participating interests in our consolidated 
investments as follows:
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Brookfield Asset Management     ................................................................................................................... $ 2,269 $ 2,247 
Brookfield Renewable  ..................................................................................................................................  32,635  25,677 
Brookfield Infrastructure      ............................................................................................................................  27,651  31,479 
Brookfield Business Partners  ......................................................................................................................  15,429  15,241 
Brookfield Property Group     ..........................................................................................................................  25,725  35,314 
Other participating interests     .......................................................................................................................  15,697  12,507 
$ 119,406 $ 122,465 
Non-controlling interests decreased by $3.1 billion during the year, primarily due to:
• comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests, which totaled $4.2 billion; and
• capital raised from third parties, net of distributions, of $1.3 billion; more than offset by
• ownership changes of $8.5 billion, primarily due to the deconsolidation of BSREP IV within our LP investments.
CONSOLIDATION AND FAIR VALUE ACCOUNTING
As a Canadian domiciled public corporation, we report under IFRS Accounting Standards, while many other issuers 
that may be considered peers report under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“U.S. GAAP”). There are 
many differences between U.S. GAAP and IFRS Accounting Standards, but the two principal differences affecting our 
consolidated financial statements compared to those of other issuers are consolidation and fair value accounting.
In particular, U.S. GAAP allows some issuers to report certain investments, which qualify as variable interest entities, 
at fair value as a single line item on their balance sheet on a proportionate ownership basis as opposed to 
consolidating the underlying funds that the investment is held in inclusive of non-controlling interests. This 
approach is not available under IFRS Accounting Standards. This can create significant differences in the 
presentation of our financial statements as compared to other issuers.
CONSOLIDATION
Our consolidation conclusions under IFRS Accounting Standards may differ from other issuers who report under 
U.S. GAAP for two primary reasons:
• U.S. GAAP uses a voting interest model or a variable interest model to determine consolidation requirements, 
depending on the circumstances, whereas IFRS Accounting Standards uses a control-based model. We generally 
have the contractual ability to unilaterally direct the relevant activities of the funds managed by our Asset 
Management business; and; 
• we generally invest significant amounts of capital alongside clients of our Asset Management business and 
partners, which means that we earn meaningful returns as a principal investor in addition to our share of asset 
management returns compared to others who may act solely as an agent.
As a result, in many cases, we control entities in which we hold only a minority economic interest. For example, a 
Brookfield-sponsored private fund to which we have committed 30% of the capital may acquire 80% of the voting 
interest in an investee company. The contractual arrangements generally provide us with the irrevocable ability to 
direct the funds’ relevant activities. Based on these facts, we would control the investment because we exercise 
decision-making power over a controlling interest of that business and our 24% economic interest provides us with 
sufficient exposure to the variable returns of a principal. 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 55

All entities that we control are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. As a result, we include 100% of these 
entities’ revenues and expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Operations, even though a substantial portion of 
their net income is attributable to non-controlling interests. Furthermore, we include all of the assets, liabilities, 
including non-recourse borrowings, of these entities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, and include the portion of 
equity held by others as non-controlling interests.
Intercompany revenues and expenses between Brookfield and its subsidiaries, such as asset management fees, are 
eliminated in our Consolidated Statements of Operations; however, these items affect the attribution of net income 
between shareholders and non-controlling interests. For example, asset management fees paid by our perpetual 
affiliates to our Asset Management business are eliminated from consolidated revenues and expenses. However, as 
the common shareholders are attributed 73% of the fee revenues
1
 while only attributed their proportionate share 
of the listed affiliates’ expenses, the amount of net income attributable to common shareholders is increased with a 
corresponding decrease in net income attributable to non-controlling interests.
FAIR VALUE ACCOUNTING
Under U.S. GAAP, many issuers who may be considered our peers account for their funds as investment companies 
and reflect their investments at fair value. 
Under IFRS Accounting Standards, as a parent company, we are required to look through our consolidated and 
equity accounted investments and account for their assets and liabilities under the applicable IFRS Accounting 
Standards. We reflect a large number of assets at fair value, namely our investment properties, renewable power 
facilities and certain infrastructure assets which are typically recorded at amortized cost under U.S. GAAP. However, 
there are other assets that are not subject to fair value accounting under IFRS Accounting Standards and are 
therefore carried at amortized cost, which would be more consistent with U.S. GAAP. 
Under both IFRS and U.S. GAAP Accounting Standards, the value of target carried interest, net of direct costs, of our 
Asset Management business is generally not reflected on the balance sheet despite being a material component of 
the value of our business.
For additional details on the valuation approach for the relevant segments, critical assumptions and related 
sensitivities, refer to Part 5 – Accounting Policies and Internal Controls.
1. See definition in Glossary of Terms beginning on page 134.
56 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
A portion of our capital is invested in non-U.S. dollar currencies and the cash flows generated from these 
businesses, as well as our equity, are subject to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. From time to time, we 
utilize financial contracts to adjust these exposures. The most significant currency exchange rates that impact our 
business are shown in the following table:
AS AT DEC. 31
Year-End Spot Rate
Appreciation/
(Depreciation) 
against U.S. Dollar Average Rate
Appreciation/
(Depreciation) 
against U.S. Dollar
2024 2023 2022
2024 vs. 
2023
2023 vs. 
2022 2024 2023 2022
2024 vs. 
2023
2023 vs. 
2022
Australian dollar    ..  0.6188  0.6812  0.6813  (9%)  —%  0.6597  0.6644  0.6949  (1%)  (4%) 
Brazilian real
1
   .......  6.1920  4.8403  5.2165  (22%)  8%  5.3908  4.9953  5.1644  (7%)  3% 
British pound    .......  1.2516  1.2731  1.2083  (2%)  5%  1.2781  1.2439  1.2372  3%  1% 
Canadian dollar   ...  0.6953  0.7547  0.7382  (8%)  2%  0.7301  0.7412  0.7690  (1%)  (4%) 
Colombian peso
1
    .  4,405.8  3,854.9  4,852.5  (13%)  26%  4,074.4  4,320.5  4,260.5  6%  (1%) 
Euro     ........................  1.0353  1.1039  1.0705  (6%)  3%  1.0820  1.0816  1.0538  —%  3% 
1. Using Brazilian real and Colombian peso as the price currency.
Currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar at the end of the current year were lower than                 
December 31, 2023 for all of our significant non-U.S. dollar investments. As at December 31, 2024, our common 
equity of $41.9 billion was invested in the following currencies: U.S. dollars – 64% (December 31, 2023 – 52%); British 
pounds – 12% (December 31, 2023 – 12%); Brazilian reais – 4% (December 31, 2023 – 7%); Australian dollars – 3%  
(December 31, 2023 – 6%); Canadian dollars – 2% (December 31, 2023 – 5%); Euro – 8% (December 31, 2023 – 7%); 
and other currencies – 7% (December 31, 2023 – 11%). 
The following table disaggregates the impact of foreign currency translation on our equity by the most significant 
non-U.S. dollar currencies:
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023 Change
Australian dollar    ...................................................................................................................... $ (697) $ (45) $ (652) 
Brazilian real      ............................................................................................................................  (2,279)  983  (3,262) 
British pound    ...........................................................................................................................  (233)  705  (938) 
Canadian dollar   .......................................................................................................................  (1,040)  335  (1,375) 
Colombian peso     ......................................................................................................................  (782)  1,226  (2,008) 
Euro     ............................................................................................................................................  (952)  628  (1,580) 
Other  ..........................................................................................................................................  (992)  (38)  (954) 
Total cumulative translation adjustments    ........................................................................  (6,975)  3,794  (10,769) 
Currency hedges
1
  ....................................................................................................................  2,938  (1,953)  4,891 
Total cumulative translation adjustments net of currency hedges  ............................. $ (4,037) $ 1,841 $ (5,878) 
Attributable to:
Shareholders   ......................................................................................................................... $ (778) $ 271 $ (1,049) 
Non-controlling interests     ...................................................................................................  (3,259)  1,570  (4,829) 
$ (4,037) $ 1,841 $ (5,878) 
1. Includes deferred income tax recovery of $1 million (2023 – recovery of $72 million).
The foreign currency translation of our equity, net of currency hedges, decreased consolidated equity by $4.0 billion 
for the year ended December 31, 2024, of which our share was $778 million. This was attributable to lower year-end 
rates across most currencies relative to the U.S. dollar.
We seek to hedge foreign currency exposure where the cost of doing so is reasonable. Due to the high costs 
associated with hedging the Brazilian real, Colombian peso and other emerging market currencies, hedge levels 
against those currencies were low as at December 31, 2024.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 57

CORPORATE DIVIDENDS
The dividends paid by Brookfield on outstanding securities during 2024, 2023 and 2022, are  summarized in the 
following table.
  Distribution per Security
  2024 2023 2022
Class A and B
1
 Limited Voting Shares (“Class A and B shares”)
2
     .................................... $ 0.32 $ 0.28 $ 0.56 
Special distribution to Class A and B shares
3
      ....................................................................  —  —  8.00 
Class A Preferred Shares
Series 2    ..................................................................................................................................  0.88  0.89  0.51 
Series 4     .................................................................................................................................  0.88  0.89  0.51 
Series 8
4
   .................................................................................................................................  —  —  0.75 
Series 9
5
   .................................................................................................................................  —  —  0.58 
Series 13    ................................................................................................................................  0.88  0.89  0.51 
Series 15
6
  ...............................................................................................................................  —  —  0.45 
Series 17    ................................................................................................................................  0.87  0.88  0.91 
Series 18    ................................................................................................................................  0.87  0.88  0.91 
Series 24    ................................................................................................................................  0.59  0.60  0.62 
Series 26
7
  ...............................................................................................................................  0.70  0.71  0.72 
Series 28
8
  ...............................................................................................................................  0.84  0.85  0.70 
Series 30
9
  ...............................................................................................................................  1.11  1.13  0.90 
Series 32
10
     .............................................................................................................................  1.23  1.02  0.97 
Series 34
11
     .............................................................................................................................  1.04  0.82  0.85 
Series 36    ................................................................................................................................  0.89  0.90  0.93 
Series 37    ................................................................................................................................  0.89  0.91  0.94 
Series 38    ................................................................................................................................  0.65  0.66  0.69 
Series 40
12
     .............................................................................................................................  0.82  0.75  0.77 
Series 42    ................................................................................................................................  0.59  0.60  0.63 
Series 44    ................................................................................................................................  0.91  0.93  0.96 
Series 46
13
     .............................................................................................................................  0.98  1.00  1.01 
Series 48
14
     .............................................................................................................................  1.14  1.15  0.91 
Series 51
4
  ...............................................................................................................................  1.11  1.12  — 
Series 52
5
  ...............................................................................................................................  0.44  0.45  — 
1. Class B Limited Voting Shares (“Class B shares”).
2. Combined, the Corporation’s and Brookfield Asset Management Ltd.’s 2024 quarterly dividend would equate to $0.175 per Class A share held 
prior to the special distribution; representing a 17% increase compared to 2023, assuming that shareholders retained the Brookfield Asset 
Management Ltd. shares received upon completion of the special distribution in December 2022.
3. Distribution of one Class A and one Class B share of Brookfield Asset Management Ltd. for every four Corporation Class A Shares and 
Corporation Class B Shares held as of the close of business on December 2, 2022, valued based on the share price of $32.00 per share of 
Brookfield Asset Management Ltd. on the date of the special distribution of the Asset Management business.
4. All Series 8 shares were converted to Series 51 shares as part of the special distribution of the Asset Management business in December 2022.
5. All Series 9 shares were converted to Series 52 shares as part of the special distribution of the Asset Management business in December 2022.
6. All Series 15 shares were fully redeemed and cancelled as at March 31, 2023.
7. Dividend rate reset commenced March 31, 2022.
8. Dividend rate reset commenced June 30, 2022.
9. Dividend rate reset commenced December 31, 2022.
10. Dividend rate reset commenced October 1, 2023.
11. Dividend rate reset commenced April 1, 2024.
12. Dividend rate reset commenced October 1, 2024.
13. Dividend rate reset commenced March 31, 2022.
14. Dividend rate reset commenced December 31, 2022.
Dividends on the Class A and B shares are declared in U.S. dollars whereas Class A Preferred share dividends are 
declared in Canadian dollars.
58 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

SUMMARY OF QUARTERLY RESULTS
The quarterly variances in revenues over the past two years are due primarily to acquisitions and dispositions. 
Variances in net income to shareholders relate primarily to the timing and amount of non-cash fair value changes 
and deferred tax provisions, as well as seasonality and cyclical influences in certain businesses. Changes in 
ownership have resulted in the consolidation and deconsolidation of revenues from some of our assets, particularly 
in our Real Estate, Infrastructure and Private Equity businesses. Other factors include the impact of foreign currency 
on non-U.S. revenues and net income attributable to non-controlling interests.
Our Real Estate business typically generates consistent same-store net operating income on a quarterly basis due to 
the long-term nature of contractual lease arrangements subject to the intermittent recognition of disposition and 
lease termination gains. Our retail properties typically experience seasonally higher retail sales during the fourth 
quarter, and our resort hotels tend to experience higher revenues and costs as a result of increased visits during the 
first quarter. We fair value our real estate assets on a quarterly basis which results in variations in net income based 
on changes in the value.
Renewable power hydroelectric operations are seasonal in nature. Generation tends to be higher during the winter 
rainy season in Brazil and spring thaws in North America; however, this is mitigated to an extent by prices, which 
tend not to be as strong as they are in the summer and  winter seasons due to the more moderate weather 
conditions and reductions in demand for electricity. Water and wind conditions may also vary from year to year. Our 
Infrastructure operations are generally stable in nature as a result of regulation or long-term sales contracts with 
our investors, certain of which guarantee minimum volumes. 
Revenues and direct costs in our Private Equity operations vary from quarter to quarter primarily due to 
acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, business and economic cycles, 
and weather and seasonality in underlying operations. Broader economic factors and commodity market volatility 
may have a significant impact on a number of our businesses, in particular within our industrials portfolio. Within 
our infrastructure services, our work access services is subject to potential seasonal fluctuations in the demand for 
services. Some of our business services operations will typically have stronger performance in the latter half of the 
year whereas others, such as our residential mortgage insurer, fluctuate based on seasonality and macroeconomic 
conditions affecting the Canadian housing market. Net income is impacted by periodic gains and losses on 
acquisitions, monetization and impairments.
Our condensed statements of operations for the eight most recent quarters are as follows:
FOR THE PERIODS ENDED                    
(MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNT)
2024 2023
Q4 Q3 Q2 $ 22,907 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1
Revenues       ................................................ $ 19,426 $ 20,623 $ 23,050  519 $ 22,907 $ 24,518 $ 24,441 $ 23,668 $ 23,297 
Net income (loss)   ..................................  101  1,518  (285)  102  519  3,134  35  1,512  424 
Net income to shareholders   ...............  432  64  43  102  699  230  81  120 
Per share $ 0.04 
– diluted    ............................................... $ 0.25 $ 0.01 $0.00  0.04 $ 0.04 $ 0.42 $ 0.12 $ 0.03 $ 0.05 
– basic    ...................................................  0.26  0.01 $0.00  0.04  0.43  0.12  0.03  0.05 
The following table shows fair value changes and income taxes for the last eight quarters, as well as their combined 
impact on net income:
FOR THE PERIODS ENDED                                                                     
(MILLIONS)
2024 2023
Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1
Fair value changes      ................................ $ (1,759) $ (166) $ (753) $ 158 $ (1,326) $ (170) $ 62 $ 38 
Income taxes   ..........................................  (259)  (138)  (304)  (281)  (87)  (241)  (409)  (274) 
Net impact  .............................................. $ (2,018) $ (304) $ (1,057) $ (123) $ (1,413) $ (411) $ (347) $ (236) 
                                                            
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 59

Over the last eight quarters, the factors discussed below caused variations in revenues and net income to 
shareholders on a quarterly basis:
• In the fourth quarter of 2024, revenues decreased in comparison to the prior quarter primarily due to 
decreased contributions from our Private Equity segment from the disposition of our road fuels operation as 
prior quarter included partial revenues due to the timing of the sale, partially offset by increased contributions 
from our Infrastructure segment due to inflation indexation and rate base increases. Net income decreased as 
increased equity accounted income from growth in our Wealth Solutions business and higher valuations of 
certain equity accounted investment properties within our Real Estate and Infrastructure segments were more 
than offset by the impairment of goodwill at our healthcare services operation, asset impairment at our natural 
gas production operation, and the settlement of a legacy pre-acquisition litigation at our dealer software and 
technology services operation, all within our Private Equity segment.
• In the third quarter of 2024, revenues decreased in comparison to the prior quarter primarily due to decreased 
contributions from our Private Equity segment from the disposition of our road fuels operation, partially offset 
by increased contributions from our Infrastructure segment due to inflation indexation and rate base increases. 
Net income increased primarily from the recognition of tax benefits at our advanced energy storage operation 
and gains associated with the disposition of our road fuels operation, both within our Private Equity segment, 
partially offset by mark-to-market decreases related to insurance reserves within our Wealth Solutions 
business.
• In the second quarter of 2024, revenues increased in comparison to the prior quarter primarily due to lease 
commencements and higher rents at certain properties within our Real Estate segment and our real estate LP 
investments within our Asset Management segment. Net income decreased from the prior quarter as 
contributions from the close of AEL were more than offset by fair value decreases at certain U.S. transitional 
and development properties within our Real Estate segment, and as the prior quarter included a bargain 
purchase gain on the acquisition of our North American retail colocation data center business within our 
Infrastructure segment. 
• In the first quarter of 2024, revenues decreased in comparison to the prior quarter primarily due to decreased 
contributions from our Private Equity segment from the deconsolidation of our nuclear technology services 
operation and lower volumes at our engineered components manufacturing operation, partially offset by 
increased contributions in our Renewable Power and Transition segment from the acquisition of a U.S. 
renewable portfolio. The lower net income in the quarter was primarily due to lower disposition gains 
compared to the prior quarter.
• In the fourth quarter of 2023, revenues were consistent with the prior quarter. Net income increased compared 
to the prior quarter due to gains associated with the disposition of our nuclear technology services operation, 
which was partially offset by fair value decreases in our Real Estate segment.
• In the third quarter of 2023, revenues increased in comparison to the prior quarter mainly due to contributions 
from recent acquisitions, primarily in our Infrastructure segment. Net income is absent one time disposition 
gains recognized in the prior quarter in our Infrastructure segment, and reflects fair value decreases on our 
transitional and development properties within our Real Estate segment.
• In the second quarter of 2023, revenues increased in comparison to the prior quarter primarily due to same-
store growth across our Operating Businesses and recent acquisitions. The increased net income in the quarter 
compared to the prior quarter is primarily a result of disposition gains from our Infrastructure segment.
• In the first quarter of 2023, revenues decreased in comparison to the prior quarter primarily due to decreased 
contributions from our Private Equity segment due to the impact of volume, partially offset by contributions 
from recent acquisitions and organic growth initiatives in our Infrastructure and Renewable Power and 
Transition segments. The increase in net income was primarily due to fair value decreases recorded on 
investment properties in the prior quarter.
60 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

PART 3 
OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS 
BASIS OF PRESENTATION
HOW WE MEASURE AND REPORT OUR OPERATING SEGMENTS
Our operations are organized into our Asset Management business, our Wealth Solutions business, our four 
primary Operating Businesses and our Corporate Activities, which collectively represent seven operating segments 
for internal and external reporting purposes. 
For our Asset Management and Wealth Solutions segments, we primarily measure operating performance using 
DE
1
. To further assess operating performance for the Asset Management segment, we also provide unrealized 
carried interest
1
 which represents carried interest generated on unrealized changes in the fair value of our private 
fund investment portfolios, net of realized carried interest
1
. Net operating income (“NOI”)
1
 is the key performance 
metric for our Real Estate segment, and Funds from Operations (“FFO”)
1
 is used for our other operating segments. 
We also provide the amount of capital invested by the Corporation in each segment using common equity. Common 
equity relates to invested capital
1
 allocated to a particular business segment, which we use interchangeably with 
segment common equity. 
Our operating segments are global in scope and are as follows:
i. The Asset Management  business includes managing long-term private funds, perpetual strategies and liquid 
strategies on behalf of our investors and ourselves. We generate contractual base management fees for these 
activities as well as incentive distributions
1
 and performance income, including performance fees
1
, transaction 
fees and carried interest
1
. The Asset Management business also includes our direct investments into and 
alongside private funds managed by BAM.
ii. The Wealth Solutions business includes our equity accounted interest in BWS, a wealth solutions provider 
focused on securing the financial futures of individuals and institutions through a range of retirement services, 
wealth protection products and tailored capital solutions.
Operating Businesses
iii. The Renewable Power and Transition business includes the ownership, operation and development of 
hydroelectric, wind, utility-scale solar power generating assets, distributed energy, and sustainable solutions. 
iv. The Infrastructure business includes the ownership, operation and development of utilities, transport, 
midstream, and data assets. 
v. The Private Equity  business includes a broad range of industries, and is mostly focused on ownership and 
operations in the business services and industrials sectors.
vi. The Real Estate  business includes the ownership, operation and development of core and transitional and 
development investments (including residential development properties).
vii. Corporate Activities include the investment of cash and financial assets, as well as the management of our 
corporate leverage, including corporate borrowings and preferred equity, which fund a portion of the capital 
invested in our other operations. Certain corporate costs such as technology and operations are allocated to 
each operating segment based on an internal pricing framework.
1. See definition in Glossary of Terms beginning on page 134.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 61

In assessing operating performance and capital allocation, we separately identify the portion of DE, NOI, or FFO and 
common equity that relate to each segment, where applicable. We believe that identifying the key operating metrics 
attributable to each segment enables investors to understand how the results of these entities are integrated into 
our financial results and is helpful in analyzing variances between reporting periods. Additional information with 
respect to our listed affiliates (BEP, BIP, BBU) is available in their public filings. We also separately identify the 
components of realized carried interest, net
1
, and realized disposition gains
1
 included within the DE and FFO of each 
segment in order to facilitate analysis of variances between reporting periods.
SUMMARY OF RESULTS BY OPERATING SEGMENT
The following table presents DE, FFO, NOI and common equity by segment, where applicable, on a period-over-
period basis for comparative purposes:
AS AT AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED 
DEC. 31
(MILLIONS)
DE
1
FFO
1,2
 / NOI
1,2
Common Equity
2024 2023 Change 2024 2023 Change 2024 2023 Change
Asset Management     ................. $ 3,048 $ 3,124 $ (76) 
$ 17,338 $ 19,484 $ (2,146) 
Wealth Solutions    .....................  1,350  740  610  10,872  6,144  4,728 
Operating Businesses    ............
Renewable Power and 
Transition   ............................... $ 470 $ 418 $ 52  4,485  4,887  (402) 
Infrastructure   .......................  567  653  (86)  2,202  2,537  (335) 
Private Equity     ........................  951  1,876  (925)  1,879  3,291  (1,412) 
Real Estate
3
     ............................  3,397  3,490  (93)  23,085  22,413  672 
Corporate Activities   ................  271  (463)  734  (17,987)  (17,082)  (905) 
Total    ........................................... $ 6,274 $ 4,806 $ 1,468 $ 41,874 $ 41,674 $ 200 
1. DE is the key performance metric for the Asset Management and Wealth Solutions segments. NOI is the key performance metric for the Real 
Estate segment only. FFO is the key performance metric for the Renewable Power and Transition, Infrastructure, Private Equity, and Corporate 
Activities segments. 
2. See definition in Glossary of Terms beginning on page 107.
3. For comparability, we have excluded property management and development fees of $126 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 as 
they are no longer recognized in NOI.
During the year, we generated strong results with DE
1
 of $6.3 billion. DE before realizations
1
 were $4.9 billion for the 
year, an increase of $648 million or 15% over the prior year. The increase is attributable to inflows from continued 
fundraising momentum and capital deployment in our Asset Management business, acquisitions, organic growth, 
and strong investment performance in our Wealth Solutions business, and the resilient earnings across our 
Operating Businesses. We also recognized $403 million of net carried interest from realizations in private funds 
managed by BAM and generated $1.0 billion of disposition gains from principal investments, primarily related to a 
gain on the sale of a portion of our BAM shares to AEL shareholders.
Our Asset Management business generated DE before realizations of $1.7 billion in the current year. BAM benefited 
from a strong year of fundraising and capital deployment, with growth in FRE
1
 supported by significant inflows 
across our flagship and complementary strategies including the close of the AEL mandate, and capital deployed at 
our perpetual strategies and long-term credit funds, resulting in a $82 billion or 18%  increase in fee-bearing capital
1
 
over the prior year. Distributions from our direct investments were $909 million in the current year.
Wealth Solutions DE increased by $610 million compared to the prior year, benefitting from contributions from the 
acquisition of AEL, organic growth and the strength of our investment performance.
Renewable Power and Transition’s FFO increased by $52 million compared to the prior year primarily due to growth 
from the commissioning of development assets across our portfolio, the monetization of tax benefits in the U.S., 
and net acquisition activity, partially offset by increased interest expense due to additional borrowings to finance 
ongoing capital projects.
1. See definition in Glossary of Terms beginning on page 134.
62 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

Infrastructure’s FFO was $567 million in the current year. Excluding the impact of realized disposition gains, 
operating FFO increased by $27 million primarily due to organic growth across our businesses from inflation 
indexation, commissioning of capital projects, rate base increases, and net acquisition activity, partially offset by 
increased interest expense related to additional borrowings to finance ongoing capital projects, as well as the 
impact of foreign exchange.
Private Equity’s FFO was $951 million in the current year. Excluding the impact of realized disposition gains, 
operating FFO increased by $198 million primarily due to same-store growth from commercial execution, business 
optimization initiatives, and the recognition of tax benefits at our advanced energy storage operation in industrials, 
as well as decreased interest expense, partially offset by net disposition activity and our reduced direct ownership in 
BBU. Realized disposition gains were $199 million in the current year compared to $1.3 billion in the prior year, 
which benefitted from the sale of our nuclear technology services operation.
Our Real Estate business continues to benefit from strong performance within our core Real Estate portfolio which 
drove same-store core NOI growth of 4% over the prior year quarter. Excluding the impact of the receipt of a 
$191 million one-time lease payment in the prior year, NOI increased by $98 million primarily due to strong same-
store NOI growth, and increased lot sales in our residential business.
Common equity increased by $200 million to $41.9 billion in the year ended December 31, 2024 primarily due to 
comprehensive income and the impact of ownership changes, partially offset by distributions to common and 
preferred equity holders and share repurchases. Refer to Part 2 – Review of Consolidated Financial Results for 
details.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 63

ASSET MANAGEMENT
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
Our Asset Management business is a leading global alternative asset manager, with over $1 trillion of assets under 
management as at December 31, 2024 across renewable power and transition, infrastructure, private equity, real 
estate, and credit. As at December 31, 2024, our capital in this business is via our 73% ownership interest in BAM 
ULC
1,2
.
The business invests client capital for the long term with a focus on real assets and essential service businesses that 
form the backbone of the global economy. The business draws on our heritage as an owner and operator to invest 
for value and generate strong returns for clients, across economic cycles. Our clients include some of the world’s 
largest institutional investors, including sovereign wealth funds, pension plans, endowments, foundations, financial 
institutions, insurance companies, and individual investors.
The collaboration between the 2,500+ investment and asset management professionals in our Asset Management 
business and approximately 250,000 operating employees located in over 30 countries on five continents, provides 
Brookfield with deep investment and operating expertise across several sectors and industries, global reach and 
unique access to proprietary investment opportunities.
We put our own capital to work alongside our investors’ in virtually every transaction, aligning interests and 
leveraging our global presence, the synergies of our business and large-scale, flexible capital to achieve strong 
returns across market cycles.
We offer our clients a large and growing number of investment products to assist them in achieving their financial 
goals, providing a diverse set of long-term and perpetual private funds and dedicated public vehicles across each of 
the asset classes in which we invest and spanning various investment strategies.
As the asset manager of these investment products, our Asset Management business earns base management fees 
in addition to incentive distributions, performance fees, or carried interest depending on the product offering.
Our Asset Management business focuses on raising capital by establishing new investment products for our clients, 
identifying and acquiring high-quality assets, delivering strong underlying investment performance and executing 
timely monetizations or refinancings. If we execute in these areas, this should equate to growth in fee-bearing and 
carry eligible capital
1
 and in turn higher fee revenues, fee-related earnings and realized carried interest over time.
We also include the discretionary capital that we invest directly into and alongside private funds managed by BAM 
and other investments within the results of our Asset Management business. These investments include flagship 
real estate private funds that are managed by BAM with long-term track records of earning strong returns, as well 
as capital invested in other real estate, private equity, opportunistic and other credit funds managed by BAM, and 
other investments.
OUTLOOK AND GROWTH INITIATIVES
Alternative assets provide an attractive investment opportunity to institutional and high net worth investors. These 
asset classes also provide investors with alternatives to fixed income investments by providing a strong, inflation-
linked return profile. Institutional investors, in particular pension funds, must earn and generate returns to meet 
their long-term obligations while protecting their capital. As a result, inflows to alternative asset managers are 
continuing to grow and managers are focused on new product development to meet this demand. 
Our business model has proven to be resilient through economic cycles, due to our strong foundation and 
discipline. Overall, our business is stronger and more diversified than ever and well positioned to deliver continued 
growth.
1. See definition in Glossary of Terms beginning on page 134.
2. In February 2025, the Corporation exchanged its interest in BAM ULC for an interest in BAM Ltd. on a one-for-one basis. Following this 
transaction, the Corporation holds a 73% ownership interest in BAM Ltd., which in turn holds 100% of our Asset Management business.
64 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

During 2024, we raised a record $137  billion of capital commitments across our flagship and complementary 
strategies. We raised $13 billion for our flagship funds, including inflows from our twelfth opportunistic credit fund, 
our second global transition fund and our fifth opportunistic real estate fund strategy. We continue to progress 
fundraising across our complementary strategies, raising a further $124 billion of capital over the year, with inflows 
for our insurance mandates, our catalytic transition fund, our infrastructure income fund, our perpetual supercore 
infrastructure strategy and our fourth infrastructure debt fund.
In addition, we are also actively progressing new growth strategies, including transition, insurance, secondaries, and 
technology. These new initiatives, in addition to our existing strategies are expected to have a very meaningful 
impact on our growth trajectory in the long term.
We continue to expand our investor base through existing relationships and new channels. As at December 31, 
2024, we had over 2,300 clients, made up of some of the world’s largest institutional investors, including sovereign 
wealth funds, pension plans, endowments, foundations, financial institutions, insurance companies, and individual 
investors. Our private wealth channel also continues to grow and represents over 8% of current commitments. We 
have a dedicated team of over 150 people that are focused on distributing and developing catered products to the 
private wealth channel.
Long-term Private Funds – $262.1 billion fee-bearing capital
1
Our Asset Management business manages and earns fees on a diverse range of renewable power and transition, 
infrastructure, private equity, real estate and credit funds. These funds have a long duration, are closed-end and 
include opportunistic, value-add, core and core plus investment strategies. 
On long-term private fund capital, our Asset Management business earns:
1. Diversified and long-term base management fees on capital that is typically committed for 10 years with two 
one-year extension options. 
2. Carried interest, which enables our business to receive a portion of overall fund profits provided that investors 
receive a minimum prescribed preferred return. Carried interest is recognized when a fund’s cumulative returns 
are in excess of preferred returns and when it is highly probable that a significant reversal will not occur. 
3. Transaction and advisory fees are one-time fees earned on co-investment capital related to the close of 
transactions, and vary based on transaction agreements.
Perpetual Strategies – $208.6 billion fee-bearing capital
Our Asset Management business manages the perpetual capital in our perpetual affiliates,
 
as well as in its core and 
core plus private funds, which can continually raise new capital. From these perpetual strategies, our business 
earns:
1. Long-term perpetual base management fees, which are based on total capitalization or net asset value (“NAV”) 
of our perpetual affiliates and the NAV of its perpetual private funds.
2. Stable incentive distribution fees which are linked to cash distributions from perpetual affiliates (BEP/BEPC and 
BIP/BIPC) that exceed pre-determined thresholds. These cash distributions have a historical track record of 
growing annually and each of these perpetual affiliates target annual distribution growth rates within a range 
of 5-9%.
3. Performance fees based on unit price performance (BBU) and carried interest on its perpetual private funds. 
Liquid Strategies – $67.9 billion fee-bearing capital 
Our Asset Management business manages publicly listed funds and separately managed accounts, focused on fixed 
income and equity securities across real estate, infrastructure and natural resources. Our business earns base 
management fees, which are based on committed capital and fund NAV, and performance income based on 
investment returns.
1. See definition in Glossary of Terms beginning on page 134.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 65

SUMMARY OF OPERATING RESULTS
The following table disaggregates our share of DE and common equity of entities in our Asset Management 
segment. We have provided additional detail, where referenced, to explain significant variances in our operating 
results from the prior period.
AS AT AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS)
DE Common Equity 
Ref. 2024 2023 2024 2023
BAM
1
   ..................................................................................................................... i $ 1,736 $ 1,678 $ 6,025 $ 7,126 
Realized carried interest ................................................................................... ii  403  570  —  — 
Direct investments  ............................................................................................. iii  909  876  11,313  12,358 
Realized disposition gains     ................................................................................ iii  46  11  —  — 
$ 3,094 $ 3,135 $ 17,338 $ 19,484 
Generated carried interest
Generated in period     ........................................................................................ $ 2,656 $ 1,833 
Foreign exchange   .............................................................................................  (524)  182 
 2,132  2,015 
Less: direct costs      ................................................................................................  (598)  (727) 
Generated carried interest, net    ...................................................................... iv  1,534  1,288 
Less: generated carried interest not attributable to the Corporation     ...  (268)  (169) 
Total generated carried interest, net  ............................................................. $ 1,266 $ 1,119 
FEE-BEARING CAPITAL
The following table summarizes fee-bearing capital:
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS)
Long-Term
Private Funds
Perpetual
Strategies
Liquid 
Strategies  Total 2024 Total 2023
Renewable Power and Transition      ..... $ 34,813 $ 23,044 $ — $ 57,857 $ 52,363 
Infrastructure    .........................................  45,738  51,312  —  97,050  94,635 
Private Equity     .........................................  37,123  8,067  —  45,190  38,849 
Real Estate   ..............................................  69,689  23,940  —  93,629  93,444 
Credit    .......................................................  74,697  102,193  67,925  244,815  177,707 
December 31, 2024    ............................. $ 262,060 $ 208,556 $ 67,925 $ 538,541 n/a
December 31, 2023     .............................. $ 245,341 $ 148,719 $ 62,938 n/a $ 456,998 
We have approximately $53  billion of addition al committed capital that does not currently earn fees but will 
generate approximately $530 million in annual fees once deployed.
1. BAM is presented net of a $1 billion non-recourse loan issued to a large institutional partner in December 2024, and associated borrowing costs.
66 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

Fee-bearing capital increased by $81.5 billion during the year. The changes are set out in the following table:
AS AT AND FOR THE YEAR 
ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS)
Renewable 
Power and 
Transition Infrastructure
Private 
Equity Real Estate Credit Total 
Balance,
December 31, 2023    ...... $ 52,363 $ 94,635 $ 38,849 $ 93,444 $ 177,707 $ 456,998 
Inflows      ............................  8,670  5,313  3,714  9,074  102,211  128,982 
Outflows       .........................  —  (11)  —  (481)  (27,396)  (27,888) 
Distributions  ..................  (1,594)  (2,378)  (1,302)  (4,054)  (8,700)  (18,028) 
Market valuation    ..........  (704)  3,669  1,610  (2,169)  6,074  8,480 
Other     ...............................  (878)  (4,178)  2,319  (2,185)  (5,081)  (10,003) 
Change   ............................  5,494  2,415  6,341  185  67,108  81,543 
Balance,
December 31, 2024   ..... $ 57,857 $ 97,050 $ 45,190 $ 93,629 $ 244,815 $ 538,541 
Renewable power and transition fee-bearing capital increased by $5.5 billion, due to:
• inflows from capital raised for our second flagship global transition fund, capital market issuances within BEP, 
as well as capital deployed across our fund strategies; partially offset by
• the end of the investment period in our fourth flagship infrastructure fund
1
; and
• distributions paid to BEP’s unitholders and capital returned to investors across our long-term private funds.
Infrastructure fee-bearing capital increased by $2.4 billion, due to:
• increase in market valuations as a result of the higher market capitalization of BIP; and
• inflows from capital deployed and valuation increases across our perpetual strategies; partially offset by
• the end of the investment period in our fourth flagship infrastructure fund; and
• distributions paid to BIP’s unitholders and capital returned to investors across our long-term and perpetual 
private funds.
Private equity fee-bearing capital increased by $6.3 billion, due to:
• inflows from the acquisition of Pinegrove Ventures and capital deployed in our complementary strategies; and
• increase in market valuations as a result of the higher market capitalization of BBU; partially offset by
• distributions paid to BBU’s unitholders and capital returned to investors across our long-term private funds.
Real estate fee-bearing capital increased by $185 million, due to:
• inflows from capital raised for our fifth flagship real estate fund, as well as capital deployed across our fifth 
flagship real estate fund and other long-term private funds; partially offset by
• distributions and lower market valuation of certain assets across our perpetual fund strategies and long-term 
private funds.
Credit fee-bearing capital increased by $67.1 billion, due to:
• inflows from the close of the AEL mandate and the acquisition of Castlelake L.P. (“Castlelake”); and
• inflows from capital deployed and valuation increases across our liquid and perpetual strategies and long-term 
private funds (including our twelfth flagship opportunistic credit fund); partially offset by
• redemptions from our liquid and perpetual strategies and distributions across our Oaktree, infrastructure and 
real estate debt strategies. 
1. Related to renewable power and transition assets.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 67

CARRY ELIGIBLE CAPITAL
Carry eligible capital
1
 increased by $3.0 billion during the year to $240.3 billion as at December 31, 2024     
(December 31, 2023 – $237.3 billion), primarily related to our acquisition of Castlelake and capital committed in our 
fifth flagship real estate fund, second global transition fund and catalytic transition fund, partially offset by 
distributions from our second and third flagship real estate funds, fourth flagship private equity fund and closed-
end credit funds.
As at December 31, 2024, $167.1 billion of carry eligible capital was deployed (December 31, 2023 – $165.8 billion). 
This capital is either currently earning carried interest or will begin earning carried interest once its related funds 
have reached their preferred return threshold. There are currently $73.1 billion of uncalled fund commitments that 
will begin to earn carried interest once the capital is deployed and fund preferred returns are met              
(December 31, 2023 – $71.5 billion).
OPERATING RESULTS
DE from our Asset Management business includes fee-related earnings, net of corporate costs, excluding equity-
based compensation costs and realized carried interest earned by us in respect of capital managed for our 
investors. Fee-related earnings includes fees earned by BAM on the capital invested by us in the perpetual affiliates. 
This is representative of how we manage the business and measure the returns from our asset management 
activities. DE from our Asset Management business also includes operating earnings from our interests in direct 
investments. We also analyze unrealized carried interest, net, to provide insight into the value our investments have 
created in the period. 
i. Distributable earnings from BAM
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Fee revenues
1
Base management fees  ................................................................................................................................... $ 4,233 $ 3,956 
Incentive distributions  .....................................................................................................................................  424  378 
Transaction and advisory fees   .......................................................................................................................  49  47 
 4,706  4,381 
Less: direct costs   .................................................................................................................................................  (2,136)  (2,014) 
 2,570  2,367 
Less: fee-related earnings not attributable to the Corporation   ...............................................................  (114)  (126) 
Fee-related earnings      ..........................................................................................................................................  2,456  2,241 
Cash taxes    ............................................................................................................................................................  (301)  (196) 
Add back: equity-based compensation costs, investment income and other     ......................................  204  193 
BAM distributable earnings   ..............................................................................................................................  2,359  2,238 
Amounts not attributable to the Corporation   .............................................................................................  (622)  (560) 
BAM distributable earnings at our share      ......................................................................................................  1,737  1,678 
Non-recourse borrowings
2
     ...............................................................................................................................  (1)  — 
Distributable earnings from Asset Management business, 
net of non-recourse borrowings     ..................................................................................................................... $ 1,736 $ 1,678 
1. See definition in Glossary of Terms beginning on page 134.
2. Non-recourse borrowings relate to interest paid on a $1 billion loan issued to a large institutional partner in December 2024. 
68 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

Fee-related earnings increased to $2.5 billion, mainly due to higher base management fees driven by increased fee-
bearing capital and growth in incentive distributions from BIP and BEP, partially offset by increased direct costs as 
we continue to scale our Asset Management business.
Base management fees increased by $277 million to $4.2 billion, representing a 7% increase from the prior year as a 
result of the following activity:
• $248 million increase from our credit business due to the closing of the AEL mandate as well as capital 
deployed across our opportunistic credit flagship and other debt funds; 
• $51 million increase from our real estate business due to capital raised for our fifth opportunistic real estate 
fund strategy, partially offset by lower market valuation of certain assets across our perpetual fund strategies; 
and
• $20 million increase from our renewable power and transition business due to capital raised for our second 
flagship global transition fund and our fifth flagship infrastructure fund
1
, partially offset by the end of the 
investment period for our fourth flagship infrastructure fund
1
; partially offset by
• $24 million decrease from our infrastructure business as capital raised for our fifth flagship infrastructure fund 
as well as capital deployed in our supercore infrastructure strategy and our infrastructure income strategy were 
more than offset by the end of the investment period for our fourth flagship infrastructure fund; and
• $18 million decrease from our private equity business as capital raised for our sixth flagship private fund and 
higher capitalization of BBU as a result of a higher trading price were more than offset by the end of the 
investment period for our fifth flagship private equity fund.
Incentive distributions across our perpetual affiliates increased by $46 million to $424 million, due to higher 
distributions paid by BIP and BEP versus the prior year.
The margin on our fee-related earnings was 57% in the current period (2023 – 56%), benefitting from the growth in 
our credit segment and continued fundraising momentum. As we continue to raise capital in the coming year, we 
expect our margin to continue to increase due to our operating leverage.
Direct costs consist primarily of employee expenses and professional fees, as well as business related technology 
costs and other shared services. Direct costs increased by $122 million from the prior year as we continue to scale 
our asset management franchise, including enhancing our fundraising and client service capabilities and developing 
new complementary strategies. 
Cash taxes and other income (expense) comprise of corporate costs of our Asset Management business. Amounts 
not attributable to the Corporation relate to non-controlling interest (“NCI”) of our Asset Management business.
ii. Realized Carried Interest
We realize carried interest when a fund’s cumulative realized returns are in excess of preferred returns and are no 
longer subject to future investment performance (e.g., subject to “clawback”). During the year, we realized           
$403 million of carried interest, net of direct costs (2023 – $570 million), which were primarily driven by realizations 
from flagship funds within our  infrastructure and real estate businesses, as well as from our closed-end credit 
funds.
We provide supplemental information and analysis below on the estimated amount of unrealized carried interest 
(see  section  iv) that has accumulated based on fund performance up to the date of the consolidated financial 
statements. 
1. Related to renewable power and transition assets.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 69

iii. Direct investments
DE before realizations from our direct investments of $909 million was $33 million higher than the prior year. The 
increase is mainly attributable to strong investment performance and higher distributions compared to the prior 
year.
Realized disposition gains from our direct investments of $46 million were primarily attributable to the sale of 
certain financial assets.
iv. Unrealized Carried Interest
The amounts of accumulated unrealized carried interest
1
 and associated costs are not included in our Consolidated 
Balance Sheets or Consolidated Statements of Operations as they are still subject to clawback. These amounts are 
shown in the following table:
2024 2023
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS)
Carried
Interest
Direct
Costs Net
Carried
Interest
Direct
Costs Net
Accumulated unrealized, beginning of 
period     ..................................................................... $ 10,152 $ (3,376) $ 6,776 $ 9,143 $ (3,021) $ 6,122 
In-period change
Generated in period     ........................................  2,656  (745)  1,911  1,833  (677)  1,156 
Foreign currency revaluation     ........................  (524)  147  (377)  182  (50)  132 
 2,132  (598)  1,534  2,015  (727)  1,288 
Less: realized   .....................................................  (801)  299  (502)  (1,006)  372  (634) 
 1,331  (299)  1,032  1,009  (355)  654 
Accumulated unrealized, end of period   .........  11,483  (3,675)  7,808  10,152  (3,376)  6,776 
Carried interest not attributable to the 
Corporation    ..........................................................  (1,439)  654  (785)  (1,230)  612  (618) 
Accumulated unrealized, end of period, net    . $ 10,044 $ (3,021) $ 7,023 $ 8,922 $ (2,764) $ 6,158 
Unrealized carried interest generated in the current year before foreign exchange and associated costs was 
$2.7 billion primarily related to increased valuations in our infrastructure, private equity and credit businesses.
Accumulated unrealized carried interest, at our share
1
, totaled $10.0 billion as at December 31, 2024. We estimate 
approximately $3.0 billion in associated costs related to the future realization of the accumulated amounts to date, 
predominantly related to employee long-term incentive plans and  taxes that will be incurred.  We expect to 
recognize $5.6 billion of this carry at our share, before costs, within the next three years; however, realization of this 
carried interest is dependent on future investment performance and the timing of monetizations.
1. See definition in Glossary of Terms beginning on page 134.
70 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

WEALTH SOLUTIONS
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
• Our Wealth Solutions business is a wealth solutions provider focused on securing the financial futures of 
individuals and institutions through a range of retirement services, wealth protection products and tailored 
capital solutions. Through its operating subsidiaries, BWS offers a broad range of insurance products and 
services, including annuities, personal and commercial property and casualty insurance, and life insurance. In 
doing so, our Wealth Solutions business seeks to match its liabilities with a portfolio of high-quality investments 
in order to generate attractive, risk-adjusted returns.
• Our capital invested in our Wealth Solutions business is via our equity accounted investment in BWS, which is 
listed on the NYSE and TSX. We refer to BWS as a “paired entity” to the Corporation. Each BWS Class A 
exchangeable share has been structured with the intention of providing an economic return equivalent to one 
Brookfield Class A Share due to each exchangeable share (i) being exchangeable at the option of the holder for 
one Brookfield Class A Share or its cash equivalent (the form of payment to be determined at the election of the 
Corporation), subject to certain limitations, and (ii) receiving distributions at the same time and in the same 
amounts as dividends on the Brookfield Class A Shares.
• The business may seek to add duration and diversification to its investment portfolio by acquiring public and 
private real assets across many of the asset classes in which Brookfield has a long-dated track record of 
success, including real estate, royalties, or public securities (among other assets). These acquisitions could be 
made in the open market or from assets currently owned by the Corporation. 
OPERATIONS
Annuities
Annuities offer our policyholders a tax-deferred means of accumulating retirement savings, as well as a reliable 
source of income during the payout period. Our primary insurance products and coverages include: 
• Fixed index annuities that allow policyholders to earn index credits based on the performance of a particular 
index without the risk of loss of their account value;
• Fixed rate annuities that include annual, multi-year rate guaranteed products and single premium deferred 
annuities;
• Pension risk transfer that allows corporate sponsors to transfer all or part of the risks associated with the 
sponsorship and administration of a pension plan, in particular, investment risk and longevity risk; and
• Single premium immediate annuities that are purchased with one premium payment, providing periodic 
(usually monthly or annual) payments to the annuitant for a specified period.
Property and Casualty
Our primary insurance products and coverages include:
• Property lines that offer policies protecting various personal and commercial properties from man-made and 
natural disasters, including property insurance for homeowners and renters;
• Casualty lines that include a broad range of primary and excess casualty products, such as specialty casualty, 
construction defect, general liability, commercial multi-peril, workers compensation, product liability, 
environmental liability and auto liability;
• Specialty lines that include niche insurance coverages such as garage and inland marine and offer insurance 
programs and fronting solutions; and
• Run-off and other lines that primarily consist of discontinued lines previously underwritten by our insurance 
subsidiaries including professional liability, surety and homeowners.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 71

Life Insurance
Our primary insurance products and coverages include:
• Whole life products that provide a guaranteed benefit upon the death of the insured in return for the periodic 
payment of a fixed premium over a predetermined period;
• Universal life insurance products that provide coverage through a contract that gives the policyholder flexibility 
in premium payments and coverage amounts;
• Variable universal life products that provide insurance coverage on a similar basis as universal life, except that 
the policyholder bears the investment risk because the value of the policyholder’s account balance varies with 
the investment experience of the securities selected by the policyholder held in the separate account; and
• Credit life insurance products that are sold in connection with a loan or other credit account, and are designed 
to pay the lender the borrower’s remaining debt on a loan or credit account if the borrower dies during the 
coverage period.
OUTLOOK AND GROWTH INITIATIVES
Our Wealth Solutions business seeks to match its insurance liabilities with a portfolio of high-quality investments in 
order to generate attractive, risk-adjusted returns. In doing so, our Wealth Solutions business leverages our broader 
Brookfield platforms to opportunistically source new business and deploy our capital in assets that are tailored to 
our investment needs. Our Brookfield platforms and relationships provide us with access to a diverse mix of leading 
alternative investment strategies that we believe are well-suited for this purpose.
Our Wealth Solutions business’ insurance assets increased to over $120 billion as we closed on the acquisition of 
AEL and originated approximately $19 billion of retail and institutional annuity sales in 2024. During the year, we 
deployed over $16 billion across the investment portfolio at strong risk-adjusted yields. 
We continue to diversify the business by growing our pension risk transfer capabilities and expanding into new 
markets. An example of this is the completion of our first reinsurance transaction in the U.K., at $1.3 billion which 
closed in the fourth quarter of 2024.
72 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

SUMMARY OF OPERATING RESULTS
Distributable operating earnings (“DOE”) is a key measure of our Wealth Solutions business’ financial performance 
and is equivalent to its DE
1
. The following table disaggregates our Wealth Solutions segment’s DOE to facilitate 
analysis of the year-over-year variances:
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Net investment income    ......................................................................................................................... $ 4,700 $ 2,269 
Cost of funds
2
      ..........................................................................................................................................  (2,726)  (1,214) 
Interest expense     .....................................................................................................................................  (344)  (193) 
Operating expenses and other
2
   ..........................................................................................................  (256)  (117) 
Distributable operating earnings, gross    ............................................................................................  1,374  745 
Less: Amounts not attributable to the Corporation   ........................................................................  (24)  (5) 
Distributable operating earnings, net  ................................................................................................ $ 1,350 $ 740 
2. For comparability with peers, we have reclassified current income taxes of $67  million for the year ended December 31, 2024 (2023 – 
$51 million) from cost of funds to operating expenses and other.
Our DOE was $1.4 billion, a $610 million increase from the prior year, benefitting from contributions from the 
acquisition of AEL, organic growth and the strength of our investment performance. The average investment 
portfolio yield was 5.4%, 1.8% higher than the average cost of capital. Annualized earnings for the business are well 
positioned to grow in the near term as we continue to rotate the investment portfolio.
COMMON EQUITY
Common equity in our Wealth Solutions segment was $10.9 billion as at December 31, 2024 (2023 – $6.1 billion), 
which includes distributable operating earnings retained in this business and mark-to-market movements on our 
investment portfolio and reserves. 
Our capital in this business increased primarily due to the contribution of approximately $1 billion of BAM shares to 
support the acquisition of AEL in May 2024 and the contribution of a $1 billion economic interest in BBU in the 
fourth quarter of 2024, both in exchange for newly-issued BWS Class C shares, and the reinvestment of DE to 
support the continued growth of this business.
1. See definition in Glossary of Terms beginning on page 134.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 73

RENEWABLE POWER AND TRANSITION
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
• We own and operate renewable power, sustainable solutions and transition assets primarily through our 46% 
economic ownership interest
1
 in BEP, which is listed on the NYSE and TSX and had a market capitalization of 
$15.9 billion as at December 31, 2024.
• BEP owns diverse and high-quality assets across multiple continents and technologies including hydroelectric 
wind, utility-scale solar, and distributed energy and sustainable solutions investments.
• We also enter into energy contracts, which are our contractual arrangements with BEP to purchase power 
generated by certain North American hydro assets at a fixed price that is then resold on a contracted or 
uncontracted basis.
OPERATIONS
Hydroelectric
• We operate and invest in 235 hydroelectric generating stations o n 83 river systems in North America, Brazil and 
Colombia. Our hydroelectric operations have 8,276 megawatts (“MW”) of installed capacity and annualized long-
term average (“LTA”)
1
 generation of 19,722 gigawatt hours (“GWh”) on a proportionate basis
1
.
Wind
• Our wind operations includ e 261 wind facilities globally with  17,134  MW of installed capacity and annualized 
LTA generation of 9,690 GWh on a proportionate basis
1
.
Utility-scale Solar
• Our utility-scale solar operations include 309 solar facilities globally with  12,050 MW of installed capacity and 
5,119 GWh of annualized LTA generation on a proportionate basis
1
.
Distributed Energy & Sustainable Solutions
• Our distributed generation operation include s 7,320 facilities across two river systems with 7,291 MW of 
installed capacity and annualized LTA generation of 1,216 GWh on a proportionate basis
1
. 
• Our sustainable solutions portfolio includes a leading nuclear technology services operation and a utility and 
independent power producer with 320 MW of wind capacity and 118 MW of solar capacity.
Energy Contracts
• Based on LTA, we purchase approximately 4,100 GWh of power from BEP each year pursuant to a long-term 
contract at a predetermined price, which represents 12% of BEP’s power generation. 
• The fixed price that we are required to pay BEP increases annually based on inflation, not to exceed 3%. In 
addition, from 2021 to 2025, the price will gradually step down by $3 per megawatt hour (“MWh”), followed by a 
$5/MWh reduction in 2026. The contract expires in 2046 and provides us the right to terminate the agreement 
in 2036. Refer to Part 5 – Accounting Policies and Internal Controls for additional information.
• We sell the power into the open market and also earn ancillary revenues, such as capacity fees and renewable 
power credits, which provide us with increased participation in future increases or decreases in power prices.
1. See definition in Glossary of Terms beginning on page 134.
74 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

OUTLOOK AND GROWTH INITIATIVES
Revenues in our Renewable Power and Transition segment ar e 88% contracted with an average contract term of 
14  years, on a proportionate basis, with pricing that is inflation linked. By combining this with a stable, low cost 
profile, we are able to achieve consistent growth year over year within our existing business. In addition, we 
consistently identify capital development projects that provide an additional source of growth. Our development 
pipeline represents over
 200,000 MW of potential capacity globally. We expect to deliver $443  million to BEP’s 
annualized FFO from our recently developed, under construction or construction-ready, and advanced stage 
development assets. We also have a strong track record of expanding our business through accretive acquisitions 
and will continue to seek out these opportunities.
We believe that the growing global demand for low-carbon energy, especially amongst corporate off takers, will lead 
to continued growth opportunities for us in the future. In 2025, we intend to remain focused on progressing our key 
priorities, which include surfacing margin expansion opportunities, progressing our development pipeline and 
assessing select contracting opportunities across the portfolio. We believe the investment environment for 
renewable power remains favorable and we expect to continue to advance our pipeline of acquisition opportunities.
SUMMARY OF OPERATING RESULTS
The following table disaggregates our share of FFO and common equity of entities in our Renewable Power and 
Transition segment. In addition, we provide the cash distributions received. We have provided additional detail, 
where referenced, to explain significant movements from the prior period.
AS AT AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS)
FFO Common Equity 
Ref. 2024 2023 2024 2023
Brookfield Renewable
1
     ........................................................................... i $ 491 $ 442 $ 3,821 $ 4,302 
Energy contracts    ...................................................................................... ii  (28)  (43)  664  585 
Realized disposition gains     ...................................................................... iii  7  19  114  —  — 
$ 470 $ 418 $ 4,485 $ 4,887 
Cash distributions received $ 400 $ 374 
FFO of $470 million increased by $52 million from the prior year, primarily due to growth from the commissioning of 
development assets across our portfolio, the monetization of tax benefits in the U.S., and net acquisition activity, 
partially offset by increased interest expense due to additional borrowings to finance ongoing capital projects.
1. Brookfield’s interest in BEP consists of 194.5 million redemption-exchange units, 69.2 million Class A limited partnership units, 4.0 million general 
partnership units, as well as 34.7  million Class A.2 exchangeable non-voting shares of BRHC (previously Class A shares of BEPC), together 
representing an economic interest of 46% in BEP. As at December 31, 2024, 10.1 million Class A shares of BEPC and 5.1 million LP units of BEP 
were held by wholly-owned subsidiaries of BWS. The Corporation and BWS agreed under a voting agreement that all decisions to be made by 
subsidiaries of BWS with respect to the voting of these Class A shares will be made jointly by mutual agreement. As a result of the paired share 
status of BN and BWS and our ownership of all the issued and outstanding BWS class C shares, the shareholders of BN and BWS will continue to 
benefit from the economic return of the transferred assets. See definition in Glossary of Terms beginning on page 134.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 75

i. Brookfield Renewable
The following table disaggregates BEP’s generation and FFO by business line to facilitate analysis of the quarter-
over-quarter variances: 
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(GIGAWATT HOURS AND MILLIONS)
Actual
Generation (GWh)
1 Long-Term
Average (GWh)
1
FFO
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Hydroelectric   ............................................................ 17,580 18,985  19,844  19,907 $ 511 $ 624 
Wind   ............................................................................ 8,276 6,367  9,604  7,865  484  382 
Utility-scale solar   ...................................................... 3,712 2,489  4,365  3,123  349  261 
Distributed energy & sustainable solutions     ...... 1,379 1,241  1,111  956  329  185 
Corporate    .................................................................. — —  —  —  (456)  (357) 
Attributable to unitholders   .................................... 30,947 29,082  34,924  31,851  1,217  1,095 
Non-controlling interests and other
2
     ..................  (723)  (634) 
Segment reallocation
3
    ............................................  (3)  (19) 
Brookfield’s interest     ................................................ $ 491 $ 442 
1. Proportionate to BEP; see “Proportionate basis generation” in Glossary of Terms beginning on page 134.
2. Includes incentive distributions paid to Brookfield of $128 million (2023 – $111 million) as the general partner of BEP.
3. Segment reallocation refers to realized disposition gains, net of NCI, included in BEP’s operating FFO that we reclassify to realized disposition 
gains. This allows us to present FFO attributable to unitholders on the same basis as BEP in the table above.
BEP’s FFO for the year was $1.2 billion, of which our share was $491 million. Generation in the year was 30,947 GWh, 
a 6% increase compared to  the prior year. Generation in the year was 11% lower than the long-term average 
(“LTA”)
1
, primarily due to weaker hydrology in North America, and lower wind and solar resources across our 
portfolio. Key variances for our operations are described below and on the following page.
Hydroelectric
FFO decreased by $113 million compared to the prior year primarily as:
• higher revenue due to inflation indexation on our contracted generation across the business; was more than 
offset by
• lower hydrology across our portfolio.
Wind
FFO increased by $102 million compared to the prior year primarily due to:
• contributions from newly acquired and commissioned facilities; 
• the recognition of tax benefits across our businesses; and
• a gain on the partial sale of a non-core European development portfolio; partially offset by
• the absence of a gain on the sale of certain development assets in Uruguay in the prior year. 
Utility-Scale Solar 
FFO increased by $88 million compared to the prior year primarily due to contributions from newly acquired and 
commissioned facilities, and the recognition of tax benefits across our businesses.
Distributed Energy & Sustainable Solutions
FFO from our distributed energy and sustainable solutions operation increased by $144 million compared to the 
prior year primarily due to growth from the acquisition of our nuclear technology services operation in the fourth 
quarter of 2023 and the recognition of tax benefits across our businesses, partially offset by unfavourable pricing at 
our pumped storage facilities.
1. See definition in Glossary of Terms beginning on page 134.
76 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

Corporate
The corporate FFO deficit increased by $99 million primarily due to additional corporate level borrowings to finance 
ongoing capital projects, and decreased contributions from the sale of certain non-core assets compared to the 
prior year.
ii. Energy Contracts
During the year, we purchased 3,442 GWh (2023 – 3,653 GWh) from BEP at $74 per MWh (2023 – $74 per MWh) and 
sold the purchased generation at an average selling price of $65 per MWh (2023 – $63 per MWh). As a result, we 
recognized an FFO deficit of $28 million due to higher generation and lower market pricing.
iii. Realized Disposition Gains
Realized disposition gains of $7 million for the year are primarily attributable to the sale of a portfolio of wind and 
solar assets in Spain and Portugal. Realized disposition gains of $19 million for the prior year are attributable to the 
partial sale of a 378 MW operating hydroelectric portfolio in the U.S.
COMMON EQUITY
Common equity in our Renewable Power and Transition segment was $4.5 billion as at December 31, 2024 
(December 31, 2023 – $4.9 billion), which decreased primarily as contributions from earnings were more than offset 
by distributions to unitholders, and the impacts of depreciation and foreign exchange.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 77

INFRASTRUCTURE
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
• We own and operate infrastructure assets primarily through our 26% economic ownership interest in BIP, 
which is listed on the NYSE and TSX and had a market capitalization of $26.3 billion as at December 31, 2024.
• BIP is one of the world’s largest infrastructure investors, which owns and operates assets across the utilities, 
transport, midstream and data sectors.
PRINCIPAL OPERATIONS
Utilities
• Our regulated transmission business includes approximately 3,900 km of natural gas pipelines in North 
America, Brazil, and India, and approximately 2,900 km of operational transmission lines in Brazil.
• Our commercial and residential distribution business provides residential decarbonization infrastructure 
services, as well as other essential home services and policies, to approximately 10.4 million customers annually 
with approximately 17.2  million policies and approximately 1.7  million rental contracts in Canada, the U.S., 
Germany, and the U.K. and over 700,000 long-term contracted sub-metering services within Canada and the 
U.S. We have provided approximately 8.4  million connections, predominantly electricity and natural gas and 
have approximately 2.8 million installed meters under management across Australia and New Zealand.
• These businesses typically generate long-term returns on a regulated or contractual asset base which increase 
with capital we invest to upgrade and/or expand our systems.
Transport
• Our diversified terminals operations include a global fleet of approximately 7 million twenty-foot equivalent unit 
intermodal containers, 10 terminals in the U.K. and Australia, and we provide approximately 30 million tonnes 
per annum (“mtpa”) at our liquefied natural gas export terminal in the U.S. and approximately 85 mtpa at our 
export facility in Australia.
• We operate approximately 21,000 km of railroad track in North America and Europe, approximately 5,500 km of 
railroad track in the southern half of Western Australia and approximately 9,800 km of rail in Brazil, of which 
8,000 km are owned.
• Our toll road operations include over 3,000 km of motorways in Brazil and Peru.
• These operations are comprised of infrastructure assets that provide transportation for freight, commodities, 
and passengers. This includes businesses with price ceilings as a result of regulation, such as our rail and toll 
road operations, as well as unregulated businesses, such as our diversified terminals.
Midstream
• We own and operate approximately 15,000 km of transmission pipelines in the U.S., and approximately 570 
billion cubic feet (“Bcf”) of natural gas storage in the U.S. and Canada. There are 16 natural gas and natural gas 
liquids processing plants with approximately 5.7 Bcf per day of gross processing capacity in Canada.
• We own and operate approximately 10,600 km of pipelines in Canada which include long-haul, conventional 
and natural gas gathering pipelines and a complex with 525,000 tonnes per year of polypropylene production 
capacity in Canada.
• These operations are comprised of businesses, typically unregulated or subject to price ceilings, that provide 
transmission and storage services, with profitability based on the volume and price achieved for the provision 
of these services.
78 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

Data
• We own and operate over 300,000 operational telecom towers in India, France, Germany, Austria, and the U.K., 
approximately 28,000 km of fiber optic cable located in Australia, Brazil and the U.S., and over 70 distributed 
antenna systems located in the U.K. In addition, we have approximately 360,000 fiber-to-the-premise 
connections in Australia and the U.S., and 2 semiconductor manufacturing foundries in the U.S.
• In our data storage business, we manage over 140 data centers with approximately 1 GW of critical load 
capacity and an additional 640 MW of contracted capacity.
• These businesses provide critical infrastructure that provide telecommunications, fiber, and data storage 
services and are underpinned by both regulated and unregulated services, secured by long-term inflation-
linked contracts.
OUTLOOK AND GROWTH INITIATIVES
Our infrastructure business owns and operates assets that are critical to the global economy. Our expertise in 
managing and developing such assets make us ideal partners for our stakeholders. Our goal is to continue to 
demonstrate our stewardship of critical infrastructure which should enable us to participate in future opportunities 
to acquire high-quality infrastructure businesses.
Approximately 90% of FFO is supported by regulated or long-term contracted revenues which benefit from 
inflationary tariff increases, GDP growth and cash flow reinvestment. As a result, we are able to achieve consistent 
growth year over year within our existing business. In addition, we have been able to identify capital development 
projects that provide an additional source of growth. At the end of 2024, total capital to be commissioned in the 
next two to three years is approximately $7.8  billion. Our backlog, coupled with inflation indexation and higher 
volumes from our GDP sensitive businesses, should result in another year of strong same-store growth.
SUMMARY OF OPERATING RESULTS
The following table disaggregates our share of FFO and common equity of entities in our Infrastructure segment. In 
addition, we provide the cash distributions received. We have provided additional detail, where referenced, to 
explain significant movements from the prior period. 
AS AT AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS)
FFO Common Equity
Ref. 2024 2023 2024 2023
Brookfield Infrastructure
1
    ..................................................................... i $ 566 $ 539 $ 2,202 $ 2,537 
Realized disposition gains     ..................................................................... ii  1  114  —  — 
$ 567 $ 653 $ 2,202 $ 2,537 
Cash distributions received  .................................................................. $ 336 $ 319 
FFO was $567 million in the current year. Excluding the impact of realized disposition gains, operating FFO increased 
by $27 million primarily due to organic growth across our businesses from inflation indexation, commissioning of 
capital projects, rate base increases, and net acquisition activity, partially offset by increased interest expense 
related to additional borrowings to finance ongoing capital projects, as well as the impact of foreign exchange.
1. Brookfield’s interest consists of 190.3 million redemption-exchange units, 1.4 million limited partnership units, 2.4 million general partnership 
units of BIP LP, as well as 13.0 million Class A.2 shares of BIHC (previously Class A shares of BIPC), together representing an economic interest of 
26% in BIP.  As at December 31, 2024 3.3 million LP units of BIP were held by wholly-owned subsidiaries of BWS. As a result of the paired share 
status of BN and BWS and our ownership of all the issued and outstanding BWS class C shares, the shareholders of BN and BWS will continue to 
benefit from the economic return of the transferred assets. See definition in Glossary of Terms beginning on page 134.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 79

i. Brookfield Infrastructure
The following table disaggregates BIP’s FFO by business line to facilitate analysis of the year-over-year variances:
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Utilities   .............................................................................................................................................................. $ 760 $ 879 
Transport     .........................................................................................................................................................  1,224  888 
Midstream    .......................................................................................................................................................  625  684 
Data    ...................................................................................................................................................................  333  275 
Corporate    .........................................................................................................................................................  (474)  (438) 
Attributable to unitholders     ..........................................................................................................................  2,468  2,288 
Non-controlling interests and other
1
   ........................................................................................................  (1,886)  (1,730) 
Segment reallocation
2
   ...................................................................................................................................  (16)  (19) 
Brookfield’s interest    ...................................................................................................................................... $ 566 $ 539 
1. Includes incentive distributions paid to Brookfield of $295 million (2023 – $266 million) as the general partner of BIP.
2. Segment reallocation refers to certain items, net of NCI, included in BIP’s FFO that we reclassify.
BIP’s FFO for the year was $2.5 billion, of which our share was $566 million compared to $539 million in the prior 
year. Key variances for our operations are described below and on the following page.
Utilities
FFO in our utilities operations of $760 million was $119 million lower than the prior year, primarily as:
• organic growth as a result of inflation indexation and rate base increases; were more than offset by
• higher interest expense, primarily from additional borrowings to support capital projects; and
• the absence of contributions from an Australian regulated utility divested in the third quarter of 2023.
Transport
FFO from our transport operations of $1.2 billion was $336 million higher than the prior year. The increase was 
primarily due to:
• strong growth due to inflationary tariff increases and higher volumes across the segment; and
• a full year of contributions from our global intermodal logistics operation acquired in the third quarter of 2023 
as well as additional interest in our Brazilian rail network acquired in the second quarter of 2024; partially offset 
by
• higher interest expense incurred primarily to finance ongoing capital projects.
Midstream
FFO from our midstream operations of $625 million was $59 million lower than the prior year, primarily as:
• higher contracted cash flows and market sensitive revenues across our midstream operations; were more than 
offset by 
• decreased contribution from our U.S. gas pipeline partially divested in the second quarter of 2023; and 
• higher interest expense incurred primarily to finance ongoing capital projects.
80 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

Data
FFO from our data operations of $333 million was $58 million higher than the prior year, primarily due to: 
• additional points-of-presence across our telecom tower and fiber operations and megawatts commissioned 
across our global data storage platform; and
• contributions from the acquisitions of an Indian telecom tower operation in the third quarter of 2024, a North 
American retail colocation data center business in the first quarter of 2024, and European and U.S. hyperscale 
data center platforms in the second half of 2023; partially offset by
• the absence of contributions from a New Zealand data distribution business divested in the second quarter of 
2023.
Corporate
The Corporate FFO deficit of $474 million was $36 million higher than the prior year driven by additional corporate 
level borrowings to finance ongoing capital projects.
ii. Realized Disposition Gains
Realized disposition gains of $114 million in the prior year primarily related to the sale of our New Zealand data 
distribution business, a U.S. gas pipeline, and an Indian toll road portfolio.
COMMON EQUITY
Common equity in our Infrastructure segment was $2.2 billion as at December 31, 2024 (December 31, 2023 – 
$2.5 billion), as contributions from earnings were more than offset by distributions to unitholders, as well as the 
impact of foreign exchange. This equity is primarily comprised of our investments in PP&E and certain concessions, 
which are recorded as intangible assets. Our PP&E is recorded at fair value and revalued annually while concessions 
are considered as intangible assets under IFRS Accounting Standards, and therefore recorded at historical cost and 
amortized over the life of the concession. Accordingly, a smaller portion of our equity is impacted by revaluation 
compared to our Real Estate and  Renewable Power and Transition segments, where a larger portion of the 
balance sheet is subject to revaluation.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 81

PRIVATE EQUITY
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
• Our Private Equity business is listed on the NYSE and TSX and had a market capitalization of $5.2 billion as at 
December 31, 2024. In the fourth quarter of 2024, our wealth solutions business acquired a $1 billion economic 
interest in BBU from the Corporation. On a combined basis with our Wealth Solutions business, we hold a 66% 
ownership interest in BBU, which is held 41% directly in BBU and 25% through BWS.
• BBU is a leading global owner and operator of businesses that provide essential products and services in the 
business services and industrials sectors. 
OPERATIONS
Business Services
• Our residential mortgage insurer is the largest private sector residential mortgage insurer in Canada, providing 
mortgage default insurance to Canadian residential mortgage lenders.
• Our dealer software and technology services operation is a leading provider of cloud-based software to 
dealerships and original equipment manufacturers across automotive and related industries.
• Our healthcare services operation is a leading private hospital operator and provider of essential social 
infrastructure to the Australian healthcare system. We operate hospitals, providing doctors and patients with 
access to operating theaters, nursing staff, accommodations, and other critical care and consumables. 
• We provide global construction operations with a focus on high-quality construction of large-scale and complex 
landmark buildings and social infrastructure. Construction projects are generally delivered through contracts 
for the design and construction, including procurement for a defined price and program.
• Our fleet management and car rental services operation is one of the leading providers of heavy equipment 
and light vehicle leasing and car rental services in Brazil, and operates under medium-term inflation-linked 
contracts.
Infrastructure Services
• Our offshore oil services is a global provider of marine transportation, offshore oil production, facility storage, 
offshore installation, maintenance, and safety services to the offshore oil production industry. We operate in 
selected oil regions globally, including the North Sea, Brazil and Canada.
• We own a lottery services operation that is a leading provider of products, services, and technology across the 
lottery ecosystem in over 50 countries. 
• Our modular building leasing services provides modular workspaces in Europe and Asia-Pacific to a diversified 
customer base across the industrial, infrastructure and public sectors, servicing over 52,000 customers across 
23 countries.
• We own a work access services business that is a leading provider of scaffolding and related services to the 
industrial and commercial markets servicing over 29,000 customers in over 26 countries worldwide.
82 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

Industrials
• Our advanced energy storage operation is a global market leader in manufacturing automotive batteries that 
power both internal combustion engines and electric vehicles. We manufacture and distribute over 150 million 
batteries per year, which power one in three cars in the world.
• Our engineered components manufacturing operation is a leading global manufacturer of highly engineered 
components primarily for industrial trailers and other towable-equipment providers. We have a leading 
presence in our core products across North America, Europe, and Australia.
• Our water and wastewater operation in Brazil is a leading private sanitation provider, including collection, 
treatment, and distribution of water and wastewater services to a broad range of residential and governmental 
customers.
OUTLOOK AND GROWTH INITIATIVES
Our Private Equity business segment seeks to increase the cash flows from our operations through acquisitions and 
organic growth opportunities. We believe our global scale and industry leading operations allow us to efficiently 
allocate capital around the world toward those sectors and geographies where we see the greatest opportunities to 
realize our targeted returns. We also actively seek to monetize business interests as they mature and reinvest the 
proceeds into higher yielding investment strategies, further enhancing returns.
Within our business services operations, our residential mortgage insurer continues to perform well, as losses on 
claims remain below long-term historical levels due to the overall stability of Canadian home prices, low 
unemployment levels and consequently low mortgage delinquency rates. In our dealer software and technology 
services business, we are accelerating planned modernization and technology upgrades to enhance the user 
experience and overall customer service levels. Costs associated with these initiatives, which are reflected in near-
term results, will support higher growth and a stronger market leadership position over the long run.
Within our infrastructure services operations, industry fundamentals at our lottery services operation strengthened 
late last year as the business continues to pursue a strong pipeline of new commercial opportunities. Our modular 
building leasing services maintained stable performance through sale of value added products and services. Our 
initiatives are to focus on accelerating growth opportunities in resilient segments of the European market to 
enhance the business’ growth trajectory and durability of its earnings and cash flows. 
Within our industrials operations, our advanced energy storage operation achieved record results, benefiting from 
growing demand for higher margin advanced batteries, commercial actions and continued progress on optimization 
initiatives, as well as the recognition of tax benefits. While market conditions and volumes at our engineered 
components manufacturing operation were depressed during the year, the profitability and cash flows of the 
business were supported by ongoing cost reduction, commercial optimization and working capital efficiency 
initiatives. We anticipate performance will recover as market conditions begin to improve in 2025.
Geographically, we continue to be committed to taking a long-term view on the regions where Brookfield has an 
established presence and we are focusing efforts on accelerating growth initiatives. 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 83

SUMMARY OF OPERATING RESULTS
The following table disaggregates our share of FFO and common equity of entities in our Private Equity segment. In 
addition, we provide the cash distributions received. We have provided additional detail, where referenced, to 
explain significant movements from the prior period. 
AS AT AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS)
FFO Common Equity 
Ref. 2024 2023 2024 2023
Brookfield Business Partners
1
   ............................................................. i $ 752 $ 554 $ 1,879 $ 3,291 
Realized disposition gains     ..................................................................... ii  199  1,322  —  — 
$ 951 $ 1,876 $ 1,879 $ 3,291 
Cash distributions received
2
    ................................................................. $ 35 $ 36 
2.  BBU pays a modest distribution as the majority of its FFO is reinvested within the business.
FFO was $951 million in the current year. Excluding the impact of realized disposition gains, operating FFO increased 
by $198 million primarily due to same-store growth from commercial execution, business optimization initiatives, 
and the recognition of tax benefits at our advanced energy storage operation in industrials, as well as decreased 
interest expense, partially offset by net disposition activity and our reduced direct ownership in BBU. Realized 
disposition gains were $199 million in the current year compared to $1.3 billion in the prior year, which benefitted 
from the sale of our nuclear technology services operation.
i. Brookfield Business Partners
The following table disaggregates BBU’s FFO by business line to facilitate analysis of the year-over-year variances: 
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Business services   ........................................................................................................................................... $ 641 $ 636 
Infrastructure services  ..................................................................................................................................  287  2,070 
Industrials   ........................................................................................................................................................  935  492 
Corporate    .........................................................................................................................................................  (331)  (335) 
Attributable to unitholders     ..........................................................................................................................  1,532  2,863 
Non-controlling interests     .............................................................................................................................  (581)  (987) 
Segment reallocation and other
3
    ...............................................................................................................  (199)  (1,322) 
Brookfield’s interest    ...................................................................................................................................... $ 752 $ 554 
3. Segment reallocation and other refers to realized disposition gains, net of NCI, included in BBU’s FFO that we reclassify to realized disposition 
gains. This allows us to present FFO attributable to unitholders on the same basis as BBU.
BBU generated $1.5 billion of FFO compared to $2.9 billion in the prior year, with our share excluding realized 
disposition gains being $752 million compared to $554 million in the prior year. Key variances for our operations are 
described on the following page.
1. Brookfield’s interest in BBU consists of 51.6 million redemption-exchange units, 0.4 million limited partnership units, four general partnership 
units, four special limited partnership units, as well as 36.9  million Class A shares in Brookfield Business Corporation (“BBUC”), together 
representing an economic interest of 41% in BBU. As at December 31, 2024, 18.1 million redemption-exchange units, 25.2 million limited 
partnership units, and 10.3 million Class A shares of BBUC were held by wholly-owned subsidiaries of BWS. The Corporation and BWS agreed 
under a voting agreement that all decisions to be made by subsidiaries of BWS with respect to the voting of these Class A shares will be made 
jointly by mutual agreement. As a result of the paired share status of BN and BWS and our ownership of all the issued and outstanding BWS class 
C shares, the shareholders of BN and BWS will continue to benefit from the economic return of the transferred assets.
84 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

Business Services
Business services generated FFO of $641 million, an increase of $5 million compared to the prior year, primarily 
driven by:
• increased contributions from our residential mortgage insurer due to higher insurance revenue and investment 
income; 
• a distribution made by our entertainment operation; and
• gains on the disposition of our road fuels operation and deconsolidation of our payment processing services 
operation; partially offset by
• decreased contributions from our dealer software and technology services operation due to the impact of   
non-recurring costs and billing credits provided to customers related to the disruption of operations during a 
cybersecurity incident; and 
• the absence of a gain on the partial sale of our technology services operation in the prior year. 
Infrastructure Services
Within our infrastructure services operations, we generated $287 million of FFO. Excluding the impact of disposition 
gains and absence of contributions from our nuclear technology services operation divested in the fourth quarter of 
2023, FFO increased by $6 million compared to the prior year. This was largely driven by increased contributions 
from our offshore oil services due to higher performance and fleet utilization, as well as lower interest expense 
from debt repayment.
Industrials
Industrials generated $935 million of FFO, an increase of $443 million compared to the prior year, primarily due to:
• commercial execution, business optimization initiatives, increased demand for higher margin advanced 
batteries, and the recognition of tax benefits at our advanced energy storage operation; and
• gains on the disposition of our Canadian aggregates production operation and graphite electrode operation; 
partially offset by
• lower volumes at our engineered components manufacturing operation; and
• the absence of a gain on the sale of our automotive aftermarket parts remanufacturing operation in the prior 
year. 
Corporate
The corporate FFO deficit decreased by $4 million compared to the prior year, primarily due to lower distributions 
on preferred equity securities upon partial redemption in the fourth quarter of 2023.
ii. Realized Disposition Gains
Realized disposition gains of $199 million in the year are primarily due to the sale of our road fuels operation, 
aggregates production operation and graphite electrode operation. Realized disposition gains of $1.3 billion in the 
prior year were primarily attributable to the sale of our nuclear technology services operation.
COMMON EQUITY
Common equity in our Private Equity segment was $1.9 billion as at December 31, 2024 (December 31, 2023 – 
$3.3 billion). Contributions from FFO were more than offset by our reduced direct ownership in BBU following the 
transfer of a $1 billion interest in this business to BWS in the fourth quarter of 2024 in exchange for newly-issued 
BWS Class C shares, as well as depreciation and amortization. The depreciable assets held in these operations are 
recorded at amortized cost, with depreciation recorded on a quarterly basis, with the exception of investments in 
financial assets, which are carried at fair value based predominantly on quoted prices.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 85

REAL ESTATE
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
• Our Real Estate business is a diversified global real estate business that owns and operates premier office, 
dominant retail, luxury urban retail and hotels, and multi & single family residential properties. 
• Our capital in this business is via our 100% ownership stake in BPG. BPG owns real estate assets directly as well 
as through private funds that are managed by our Asset Management business. Included in directly held assets 
is our North American residential development business.
• We present the operating results of our Real Estate segment within two sub-segments. The sub-segments 
are based on our strategy to maintain an irreplaceable portfolio of premier properties in global gateway cities 
(“core”), and a portfolio designed to maximize returns through a development or buy-fix-sell strategy 
(“transitional and development”), including our capital invested in our North American residential business.
OPERATIONS
Core
• We own interests in and operate some of the most iconic office assets globally, including Manhattan West in 
New York and Canary Wharf in London. We focus on high-quality real estate assets in some of the best 
locations around the world because we have found that these outperform over very long periods of time and 
through economic cycles. These 16 properties are located primarily in the world’s leading commercial markets 
such as New York City, London, Toronto, Berlin, and Dubai, covering 36 million square feet. 
• We also own interests in and operate 19 irreplaceable malls totaling 24 million square feet of retail space and 
one of the most valuable retail centers of the world at the corner of 57
th
 and Fifth Avenue in New York City. We 
intend to retain long-term ownership interests in these trophy assets, such as Ala Moana in Hawaii and Fashion 
Show in Las Vegas. 
• We develop properties on a selective basis; active development projects consist of two office sites, several 
multifamily buildings and one hotel site, totaling approximately four million square feet.
Transitional and Development 
• We own interests in and operate office assets in gateway markets around the globe, consisting of 84 properties 
totaling 40 million square feet of space. These assets represent properties with transitional operational uplift 
and realization potential. They earn attractive short-term rates of return, as we acquire underperforming assets 
and  improve their operations. We add significant value during this transitional period before ultimately 
monetizing them and reinvesting the proceeds. 
• The office properties are located primarily in the world’s leading commercial markets such as New York City, 
London, Toronto, Sydney and Rio de Janeiro. 
• We also own 81 retail properties covering 78 million square feet of space, where we seek to maximize return 
through leasing, redevelopment of existing retail, or in some cases through the addition of a mixed-use 
component like multifamily or office. We add significant value during this transitional period before ultimately 
monetizing them.
• Our North American business is conducted through Brookfield Residential Properties ULC, with operations in 22 
principal markets in Canada and the U.S. and approximately 73,000 lots. 
86 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

OUTLOOK AND GROWTH INITIATIVES
Our Real Estate group remains focused on increasing the value of our properties through proactive leasing and 
select redevelopment initiatives, as well as recycling capital from mature properties, primarily from our transitional 
and development assets, to fund new higher yielding investments. We deploy additional capital throughout our 
portfolio for planned capital expansion that should continue to increase earnings for the next several years as these 
projects are completed. Our development track record reflects on-time and on-budget completions. This includes 
development projects in progress across our premier office buildings, retail malls and mixed-use complexes located 
primarily in North America and Europe. 
We have a positive outlook for our North American residential business, reflecting strong housing demand in North 
America and the significant progress we have made on strategic initiatives in recent years to scale and reposition 
the business to enhance our returns over the long-term.
SUMMARY OF OPERATING RESULTS
We present the operating results of our Real Estate segment based on our strategy to invest in core and transitional 
and development properties. The following table disaggregates BPG’s NOI and common equity by business line to 
facilitate analysis of the year-over-year variances: 
AS AT AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS)
NOI Common Equity
2024 2023 2024 2023
Core    ....................................................................................................................... $ 1,490 $ 1,673 $ 14,841 $ 14,092 
Transitional and Development
1
      ......................................................................  1,907  1,817  8,244  8,321 
Brookfield Property Group
2
   ............................................................................. $ 3,397 $ 3,490 $ 23,085 $ 22,413 
1. For comparability, we have excluded property management and development fees of $126 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 as they 
are no longer recognized in NOI.
2. See “Economic ownership interest” in the Glossary of Terms beginning on page 134.
Our Real Estate business continues to benefit from strong demand amongst tenants for premium properties, 
supported by leasing momentum as occupancy remains high at 96% in our core portfolio. During the year, we 
signed close to 27 million square feet of office and retail leases.
BPG’s NOI for the year was $3.4 billion compared to $3.5 billion in the prior year. Key variances for our operations 
are described below.
Core 
NOI of $1.5 billion was $183 million lower than the prior year. Excluding the impact of the receipt of a $191 million 
one-time lease payment in the prior year, NOI increased by $8 million, primarily driven by growth in same-store NOI 
as a result of lease commencements at certain office properties and higher rents at certain office and retail 
properties, partially offset by the impact of dispositions.
Transitional and Development
NOI of $1.9 billion was $90 million higher than the prior year, primarily driven by lease commencements at certain 
office properties and increased lot sales in our residential business, partially offset by the impact of dispositions. 
COMMON EQUITY
Common equity in our Real Estate segment was $23.1 billion as at December 31, 2024 (December 31, 2023 – 
$22.4 billion). This represents a $672 million increase, primarily due to net operating income and higher valuations 
in our core portfolio as well as the repayment of corporate debt, partially offset by net disposition activity. 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 87

CORPORATE ACTIVITIES
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
• Our corporate activities support the overall business with a focus on prudent capital allocation that will 
compound value for our shareholders over the long-term. 
• Corporate activities include, but are not limited to, supporting the growth in our Asset Management business, 
Wealth Solutions business and our Operating Businesses, and providing capital throughout the organization, 
when needed. In addition, we will make direct investments on an opportunistic basis.
• We also hold cash and financial assets as part of our liquidity management operations and enter into financial 
contracts to manage residual foreign exchange and other risks, as appropriate.
SUMMARY OF OPERATING RESULTS
The following table disaggregates FFO and common equity into the principal assets and liabilities within our 
Corporate Activities segment to facilitate analysis:
AS AT AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS)
FFO Common Equity
2024 2023 2024 2023
Corporate cash and other, net of working capital    ....................................... $ 44 $ 131 $ 578 $ (589) 
Corporate borrowings     ........................................................................................  (727)  (596)  (14,232)  (12,160) 
Preferred equity
1
    .................................................................................................  —  —  (4,333)  (4,333) 
Realized disposition gains    .................................................................................  954  2  —  — 
$ 271 $ (463) $ (17,987) $ (17,082) 
1. Includes $230 million of perpetual subordinated notes issued in November 2020 by a wholly owned subsidiary of Brookfield, included within non-
controlling interest. FFO excludes preferred share distributions of $176 million (2023 – $176 million).
Corporate cash and other, net of working capital includes accounts receivable, accounts payable, other assets and 
other liabilities, inclusive of deferred tax assets and liabilities, as well as corporate cash and financial assets. 
Corporate cash and financial assets are generally recorded at fair value with changes recognized through net 
income, unless the underlying financial investments are classified as fair value through other comprehensive 
income, in which case changes in value are recognized in other comprehensive income. Loans and receivables are 
typically carried at amortized cost. This amount excludes our proportionate share of cash and cash equivalents from 
our Asset Management business of $296 million (December 31, 2023 – $2.0 billion), which we consider to be part of 
our corporate liquidity and include as part of the common equity of our Asset Management segment.
Corporate cash and other, net of working capital was in an asset position of $578 million as at December 31, 2024 
(December 31, 2023  – liability position of $589  million), an increase from the prior year primarily due to the 
repayment of amounts placed on deposit with the Corporation by our Asset Management business.
FFO from corporate cash and other, net of working capital includes realized income and expenses from corporate 
cash and financial assets or liabilities in addition to corporate costs and cash taxes. During 2024, FFO of $44 million 
(2023 – $131 million) was generated, primarily from gains in our trading portfolio, partially offset by interest 
expense on cash placed on deposit with the Corporation by our Asset Management business. 
Corporate borrowings are generally issued with fixed interest rates. Some of these borrowings are denominated in 
Canadian dollars and therefore the carrying value fluctuates with changes in the foreign exchange rate. A number of 
these borrowings have been designated as hedges of our Canadian dollar net investments within our other 
segments, resulting in the majority of the currency revaluation being recognized in other comprehensive income. 
The $727 million FFO deficit reported through corporate borrowings reflects the interest expense on all of our 
88 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

corporate borrowings. The increase from the prior year resulted from the issuance of senior unsecured and hybrid 
bonds, and commercial paper over the year, net of the repayment of maturing term notes and revolving facilities.
Preferred equity is not revalued under IFRS Accounting Standards and is consistent with year-end. We describe cash 
and financial assets, corporate borrowings and preferred equity in more detail within Part 4 – Capitalization 
and Liquidity.
Disposition gains from principal investments are primarily related to the sale in the second quarter of 2024 of a 
portion of our interest in BAM, which was used to support the acquisition of AEL.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 89

PART 4 
CAPITALIZATION AND LIQUIDITY
CAPITALIZATION
We review key components of our capitalization in the following sections. In several instances we have 
disaggregated the balances into the amounts attributable to our operating segments in order to facilitate discussion 
and analysis. 
Corporate Capitalization
1
 – reflects the amount of debt held in the Corporate Activities segment and our issued and 
outstanding common and preferred shares. Corporate debt includes unsecured bonds and draws on  revolving 
credit facilities and the issuance of short-term commercial paper. As at  December 31, 2024, our corporate 
capitalization was $64.9 billion (December 31, 2023 – $61.6 billion) with a debt to capitalization
1,2
 of 21% (December 
31, 2023 – 20%). 
Consolidated Capitalization
1 
– reflects the aggregate capitalization of wholly owned, partially owned, and managed 
entities that we consolidate in our financial statements. As at December 31, 2024, consolidated capitalization was 
consistent compared to the prior year. Much of the borrowings issued within our managed entities are included in 
our consolidated balance sheet notwithstanding that virtually none of this debt has any recourse to the 
Corporation.
The following table presents our capitalization on a corporate and consolidated basis:
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS)
Corporate Consolidated
Ref. 2024 2023 2024 2023
Corporate borrowings     .......................................................................... i $ 14,232 $ 12,160 $ 14,232 $ 12,160 
Non-recourse borrowings
Subsidiary borrowings     ....................................................................... i  —  —  16,002  16,214 
Property-specific borrowings    ........................................................... i  —  —  204,558  205,336 
 14,232  12,160  234,792  233,710 
Accounts payable and other  ................................................................  3,941  3,359  55,502  58,893 
Deferred income tax liabilities    ............................................................  530  117  25,267  24,987 
Subsidiary equity obligations    ..............................................................  —  —  4,759  4,145 
Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale  .........  —  —  4,721  118 
Equity
Non-controlling interests     .................................................................  230  230  119,406  122,465 
Preferred equity ................................................................................. ii  4,103  4,103  4,103  4,103 
Common equity  .................................................................................. iii  41,874  41,674  41,874  41,674 
 46,207  46,007  165,383  168,242 
Total capitalization   ................................................................................. $ 64,910 $ 61,643 $ 490,424 $ 490,095 
Debt to capitalization
2
...........................................................................  21%  20%  47%  48% 
1. See definition in Glossary of Terms beginning on page 134.
2. Determined as the aggregate of corporate borrowings and non-recourse borrowings divided by total capitalization. Draws on revolving facilities 
and commercial paper issuances are excluded from the debt to capitalization ratios as they are not permanent sources of capital.
90 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

i. Borrowings
Corporate Borrowings
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS)
Average Rate
Average Term 
(Years) Consolidated
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Term debt     .................................................................  4.7%  4.4% 14 12 $ 13,562 $ 12,213 
Commercial paper
1
   .................................................  4.9%  6.1% <1 <1  767  31 
Deferred financing costs     ....................................... n/a n/a n/a n/a  (97)  (84) 
Total    ............................................................................ $ 14,232 $ 12,160 
1. Our commercial paper program is backed by our revolving credit facility, which matures in June 2029.
As at December 31, 2024, corporate borrowings included term debt of $13.6 billion (December 31, 2023 – 
$12.2 billion) which had an average term to maturity of 14 years (December 31, 2023 – 12 years). Term debt consists 
of public and private bonds, all of which  are fixed rate and have maturities ranging from 2025 to 2080. These 
financings provide an important source of long-term capital and are appropriately matched to our long-term asset 
profile.
The increase in term debt compared to the prior year is mainly driven by the issuance of $750 million 2054 notes in 
the first quarter, $450 million 2035 notes and a $200 million re-opening of 2054 notes in the second quarter and 
$700 million 2055 notes in the fourth quarter of 2024, partially offset by repayment of maturing term notes.
We had $767 million of commercial paper outstanding and no draws on our revolving facility as at December 31, 
2024 (December 31, 2023 – $31 million of commercial paper outstanding). As at December 31, 2024, $39 million of 
the revolving credit facilities were utilized for letters of credit (December 31, 2023 – $57 million). 
Subsidiary Borrowings
We endeavor to capitalize our perpetual affiliates to enable continuous access to debt capital markets, usually on an 
investment-grade basis, thereby reducing the demand for capital from the Corporation. Subsidiary borrowings 
include perpetual affiliates’ recourse term debt, credit facility draws and outstanding commercial paper. These 
borrowings have no recourse to the Corporation.
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS)
Average Rate
Average Term 
(Years) Consolidated
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Renewable Power and Transition  ........................  4.7%  4.0%  11  10 $ 3,801 $ 2,832 
Infrastructure     ........................................................  5.1%  4.9%  12  9  4,541  4,911 
Private Equity     ...........................................................  7.5%  8.6%  4  4  2,278  1,589 
Real Estate    ................................................................  5.8%  6.2%  4  4  5,382  6,882 
Total    ............................................................................  5.6%  5.7%  8  6 $ 16,002 $ 16,214 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 91

Property-Specific Borrowings
As part of our financing strategy, the majority of our debt capital is in the form of property-specific borrowings and 
project financings and is denominated in local currencies that have recourse only to the assets being financed and 
have no recourse to the Corporation or the relevant perpetual affiliate.
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS)
Average Rate
Average Term 
(Years) Consolidated
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Renewable Power and Transition  ........................  6.4%  6.0%  8  8 $ 38,149 $ 28,635 
Infrastructure     ........................................................  6.4%  6.4%  7  6  55,298  46,083 
Private Equity & Other
1
    ..........................................  7.8%  8.5%  6  6  40,935  43,884 
Real Estate
2
     ...............................................................  6.7%  7.2%  2  3  70,176  86,734 
Total     ............................................................................  6.8%  7.1%  5  5 $ 204,558 $ 205,336 
1. Includes a $1.0 billion non-recourse loan that was issued to a large institutional partner in December 2024.
2. Includes $45.8 billion (December 31, 2023 – $59.4 billion) of borrowings associated with real estate LP investments from our Asset Management 
segment.
Property-specific borrowings have decreased by $778 million since December 31, 2023, primarily due to the  
deconsolidation of BSREP IV from our real estate business, partially offset by  acquisitions in our renewable power 
and transition, and infrastructure businesses. 
Fixed and Floating Interest Rate Exposure
Many of our borrowings, including all corporate borrowings recourse to the Corporation, are fixed rate, long-term 
financings. The remainder of our borrowings are at floating rates; however, from time to time, we enter into interest 
rate contracts to swap our floating rate exposure to fixed rates.
As at December 31, 2024, 72% of our share of debt outstanding, including the effect of swaps, was fixed rate. 
Accordingly, changes in interest rates are typically limited to the impact of refinancing borrowings at prevailing 
market rates or changes in the level of debt as a result of acquisitions and dispositions.
The following table presents the fixed and floating rates of interest expense:
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS)
Fixed Rate Floating Rate
2024 2023 2024 2023
Average 
Rate Consolidated
Average 
Rate Consolidated
Average 
Rate Consolidated
Average 
Rate Consolidated
Corporate 
borrowings    .................  4.7% $ 14,232  4.4% $ 12,160  —% $ —  —% $ — 
Subsidiary 
borrowings    .................  5.0%  10,635  4.8%  10,978  6.8%  5,367  7.4%  5,236 
Property-specific 
borrowings    .................  5.6%  72,989  5.1%  67,729  7.4%  131,569  8.1%  137,607 
Total    .............................  5.4% $ 97,856  4.9% $ 90,867  7.4% $ 136,936  8.1% $ 142,843 
ii. Preferred Equity
Preferred equity represents permanent non-participating preferred shares that provide leverage  to our common 
equity. The shares are categorized by their principal characteristics in the following table:
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) Term
Average Rate Amount
2024 2023 2024 2023
Fixed rate-reset    ...................................................................... Perpetual  5.0%  4.7% $ 2,901 $ 2,901 
Fixed rate  ................................................................................. Perpetual  4.8%  4.8%  739  739 
Floating rate     ............................................................................ Perpetual  4.5%  5.3%  463  463 
Total    ..........................................................................................  4.9%  4.8% $ 4,103 $ 4,103 
92 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

Fixed rate-reset preferred shares are issued with an initial fixed rate coupon that is reset after an initial period, 
typically five  years, at a predetermined spread over the Canadian five-year government bond yield. The average 
reset spread as at December 31, 2024 was 283 basis points.
iii. Common Equity
Issued and Outstanding Shares
Changes in the number of issued and outstanding Class A and Class B shares during the years are as follows:
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Outstanding at beginning of year     ..............................................................................................................  1,523.5  1,573.4 
Issued (repurchased) 
Issuances    ......................................................................................................................................................  3.4  0.8 
Repurchases    .................................................................................................................................................  (26.7)  (54.5) 
Long-term share ownership plans
1
     ........................................................................................................  6.4  3.7 
Dividend reinvestment plan and others   ................................................................................................  —  0.1 
Outstanding at end of year ..........................................................................................................................  1,506.6  1,523.5 
Unexercised options and other share-based plans
1 
and exchangeable shares of affiliate  ..........  95.8  91.6 
Total diluted shares at end of year   ............................................................................................................  1,602.4  1,615.1 
1. Includes management share option plan and restricted stock plan.
The company holds 104.8  million Class  A shares (December 31, 2023 – 81.8  million) purchased by consolidated 
entities in respect of long-term share ownership programs, which have been deducted from the total amount of 
shares outstanding at the date acquired. Diluted shares outstanding include 23.5  million (December 31, 2023 – 
7.5  million) shares issuable in respect of these plans based on the market value of  the  Class  A shares as at 
December 31, 2024 and  December 31, 2023, resulting in a net reduction of 81.3  million (December 31, 2023 – 
74.3 million) diluted shares outstanding.
During 2024, 10.2 million options were exercised, of which 3.4 million and 0.8 million were issued on a net-settled 
and gross basis, respectively, resulting in the cancellation of 6.0 million vested options.
The cash value of unexercised options was $873 million as at December 31, 2024 (December 31, 2023 – $1.0 billion) 
based on the proceeds that would be paid on exercise of the options.
As at March 18, 2025, the Corporation had outstanding 1,498,530,965 Class  A shares and 85,120  Class  B shares. 
Refer to Note 12 of the consolidated financial statements for additional information on equity.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 93

LIQUIDITY
CORPORATE LIQUIDITY
We maintain significant liquidity at the corporate level. Our primary sources of liquidity, which we refer to as core 
liquidity
1
, consist of:
• cash and financial assets, net of other associated liabilities; and
• undrawn committed credit facilities.
We further assess overall liquidity inclusive of our Operating Businesses and our Wealth Solutions business because 
of their role in funding acquisitions both directly and through funds managed by our Asset Management business. 
On a group basis, we had $68 billion of core liquidity, including liquidity from corporate and perpetual affiliates, and 
approximately $160 billion of deployable capital
1
, including third-party commitments available for drawdown in the 
private funds of our Asset Management business, as at December 31, 2024. 
CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS
The Corporation has very few non-discretionary capital requirements. Our largest normal course capital 
requirement are our debt maturities and commitments into the funds managed by our Asset Management 
business. We have $500 million of notes due in January 2025, which was repaid subsequent to December 31, 2024. 
Periodically, we will fund capital calls for our fund commitments, strategic acquisitions to expand our capabilities 
and seed new investment strategies.
At the perpetual affiliate level, the largest normal course capital requirements are debt maturities and the pro-rata 
share of private fund capital calls. New acquisitions are primarily funded through the private funds or perpetual 
affiliates that are managed by our Asset Management business. We endeavor to structure these entities so that they 
are self-funding, preferably on an investment-grade basis, and in almost all circumstances do not rely on financial 
support from the Corporation. 
In the case of private funds managed  managed by our Asset Management business, the necessary equity capital is 
obtained by calling on commitments made by the limited partners in each fund, which include commitments made 
by our perpetual affiliates as well as the Corporation. As at December 31, 2024, the Corporation has the following 
commitments in funds managed by our Asset Management business:
AS AT DEC. 31, 2024
(MILLIONS) Total Commitment Funded Amount
Brookfield Strategic Real Estate Partners III     .................................................... $ 2,750 $ 2,750 
Brookfield Strategic Real Estate Partners IV     ....................................................  3,500  2,484 
Brookfield Strategic Real Estate Partners V   .....................................................  3,000  — 
Oaktree Opportunities Fund XI  ...........................................................................  750  638 
Oaktree Opportunities Fund XII   ..........................................................................  796  100 
$ 10,796 $ 5,972 
In the case of perpetual affiliates, capital requirements are funded through their own resources and access to 
capital markets, which may be supported by us from time to time through participation in equity offerings or 
bridge financings. 
At the asset level, we schedule ongoing capital expenditure programs to maintain the operating capacity of our 
assets at existing levels. We refer to this as sustaining capital expenditures. The sustaining capital expenditure 
programs are typically funded by, and represent a relatively small proportion of, the operating cash flows within 
each business. The timing of these expenditures is discretionary; however, we believe it is important to maintain the 
productivity of our assets in order to optimize cash flows and value accretion.
1. See definition in Glossary of Terms beginning on page 134.
94 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

CORE AND TOTAL LIQUIDITY
The following table presents core liquidity of the Corporation, perpetual affiliates and managed funds:
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS)
Corporate Liquidity
1
Deployable Capital
2024 2023 2024 2023
Cash and financial assets, net   ................................................................ $ 2,863 $ 2,013 $ 56,815 $ 29,161 
Undrawn committed credit facilities    ....................................................  3,361  2,533  10,989  9,009 
Core liquidity    ............................................................................................  6,224  4,546  67,804  38,170 
Uncalled private fund commitments   ....................................................  —  —  91,463  85,658 
Total deployable capital
2
     ..................................................................... $ 6,224 $ 4,546 $ 159,267 $ 123,828 
1. Corporate cash and financial assets includes $296 million of our proportionate share of our Asset Management business’ cash as at           
December 31, 2024 (2023 – $2.0 billion).
2. Includes $53 billion of liquidity held through our Wealth Solutions portfolio (2023 – $24 billion).
As at December 31, 2024, the Corporation’s core liquidity was $6.2 billion, consisting of $2.9 billion in cash and 
financial assets, inclusive of our proportionate share of our Asset Management business’ cash and $3.4 billion in 
undrawn credit facilities. The Corporation’s liquidity is readily available for use without any material tax 
consequences. We utilize this liquidity to support the activities of our perpetual affiliates and funding strategic 
transactions.
The Corporation has the ability to raise additional liquidity through the issuance of securities and the sale of 
holdings of listed investments within our perpetual affiliates and other investments. However, this is not included in 
our core liquidity as we are generally able to finance our operations and capital requirements through other means. 
Corporate liquidity increased by $1.7  billion compared to the prior year due to an increase in cash and financial 
assets and additional capacity added under our credit facilities.
The increase in cash and financial assets was primarily due to distributable earnings and net financing activities, 
partially offset by capital reinvested in our business and returned to shareholders in the form of dividends and 
share repurchases.
During the year, we had net financing activities of $2.6 billion  related to our $750 million 30-year bond issuance in 
March 2024, the issuance of $450 million of 10-year bonds and the re-opening of $200 million of 30-year bonds in 
June 2024, the issuance of $700 million of 30-year subordinated notes in December 2024, and commercial paper 
issuances, partially offset by repayment of maturing term notes. We also enhanced our corporate liquidity by 
upsizing our external credit facility capacity by over $800 million to $3.4 billion.
The table below shows the quoted market value of the company’s listed securities and annual cash distributions of 
the company’s Operating Businesses based on current distribution policies for each entity:
AS AT DEC. 31, 2024
(MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER UNIT AMOUNTS)
Ownership
%
Brookfield
Owned
Units
Distributions
Per Unit 
(Current Rate)
1 Quoted
Value
2
Current
Distributions
(Current Rate)
3
YTD
Distributions
(Actual)
Brookfield Renewable
4
     .............................  46%  302.4 $ 1.49 $ 6,965 $ 451 $ 428 
Brookfield Infrastructure
5
    ........................  26%  207.1  1.72  6,677  356  336 
Brookfield Business Partners
6
   ................  41%  88.9  0.25  2,120  22  35 
Brookfield Property Group
7
   .....................  100% n/a n/a n/a  1,530  1,655 
Total      ............................................................. $ 2,359 $ 2,454 
1. Based on current distribution policies.
2. Quoted value represents the value of Brookfield owned units as at market close on December 31, 2024.
3. Distributions (current rate) are calculated by multiplying units held as at December 31, 2024 by distributions per unit. Actual dividends may differ 
due to timing of dividend increases and payment of special dividends, which are not factored into the current rate calculation. See definition in 
Glossary of Terms beginning on page 134.
4. Brookfield owned units represent the combined units held in BEP and BRHC.
5. Brookfield owned units represent the combined units held in BIP and BIHC.
6. Brookfield owned units represent the combined units held in BBU and BBUC. On a combined basis with our Wealth Solutions business, we hold a 
66% ownership interest in BBU, which is held 41% directly in BBU and 25% through BWS.
7. Includes distributions from direct investments into and alongside real estate private funds managed by BAM,
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 95

REVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
The following table summarizes the consolidated statements of cash flows within our consolidated financial 
statements:
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Operating activities    .................................................................................................................................. $ 7,569 $ 6,467 
Financing activities  ...................................................................................................................................  26,900  19,927 
Investing activities ....................................................................................................................................  (29,964)  (29,762) 
Change in cash and cash equivalents    ................................................................................................. $ 4,505 $ (3,368) 
This statement reflects activities within our consolidated operations and therefore excludes activities within non-
consolidated entities.
Operating Activities
Cash flows from operating activities totaled $7.6 billion in 2024, a $1.1 billion increase from the prior year. Excluding 
the net change in non-cash working capital, cash flow from operating activities increased by $3.9 billion versus the 
prior year. Contributions from same-store growth as a result of inflation and organic growth in our Infrastructure 
segment, as well as acquisitions, net of dispositions, across our businesses were partially offset by higher interest 
expense primarily due to incremental debt to finance growth.
Financing Activities
Net cash flows from financing activities totaled $26.9 billion in 2024 compared to $19.9 billion in the prior year, and 
primarily related to:
• non-recourse borrowings arranged by our subsidiaries, net of repayments of $25.6 billion;
• capital provided by non-controlling interests, net of capital repaid, of $9.1 billion; 
• corporate borrowings arranged, net of repayments of $1.5 billion; and
• commercial paper and bank borrowings, net of repayments of $736 million; partially offset by
• cash distributions to non-controlling interests and shareholders of $8.5 billion; and
• common share repurchases of $1.0 billion.
Investing Activities
Net cash flows used by investing activities were $30.0 billion in 2024 compared to $29.8 billion in the prior year, and 
mainly related to:
• acquisitions and additions to PP&E, net of dispositions, of $8.4 billion;
• acquisitions and additions to investment properties, net of dispositions, of $7.0 billion; 
• acquisitions of equity accounted investments, net of dispositions, of $6.0 billion, primarily associated with 
acquisitions in our Infrastructure and Renewable Power and Transition businesses;
• acquisitions of subsidiaries, net of dispositions, of $5.4 billion primarily associated with acquisitions in our 
Infrastructure and Renewable Power and Transition businesses; and
• acquisitions of financial assets and other, net of dispositions, of $3.2 billion.
Refer to Note 5 Acquisitions of Consolidated Entities and Note 10 Equity Accounted Investments in the consolidated 
financial statements for further details.
96 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS
The following table presents the contractual obligations of the company by payment periods:
Payments Due by Period
AS AT DEC. 31, 2024
(MILLIONS)
Less than 
1 Year
2 – 3 
Years
4 – 5
Years 
After 5
Years  Total 
Recourse Obligations
Corporate borrowings   .................................................... $ 1,258 $ 1,430 $ 2,049 $ 9,495 $ 14,232 
Accounts payable and other
1
    .......................................  257  28  11  3,632  3,928 
Interest expense
2
Corporate borrowings   ..................................................  620  1,135  992  6,226  8,973 
Non-recourse Obligations
Principal repayments
Non-recourse borrowings of managed entities
Property-specific borrowings      ..................................  47,659  48,448  47,606  60,845  204,558 
Subsidiary borrowings    ..............................................  2,239  2,053  6,912  4,798  16,002 
Subsidiary equity obligations    ..................................  182  779  115  3,683  4,759 
Accounts payable and other 
Lease obligations   ...........................................................  1,211  2,249  1,811  11,531  16,802 
Accounts payable and other
1
    .....................................  27,649  4,950  1,902  3,428  37,929 
Commitments     ..................................................................  4,040  1,684  409  143  6,276 
Interest expense
2,3
Non-recourse borrowings    ...........................................  11,888  19,311  12,693  20,866  64,758 
Subsidiary equity obligations    .....................................  176  331  302  1,794  2,603 
1. Excludes lease obligations and provisions.
2. Represents the aggregate interest expense expected to be paid over the term of the obligations.
3. Variable interest rate payments have been calculated based on current rates.
The recourse obligations, those amounts that have recourse to the Corporation, which are due in less than one year 
totaled $2.1 billion (2023 – $1.3 billion). 
In 2014, BPY issued $1.8 billion of exchangeable preferred equity units in three $600 million tranches redeemable in 
2021, 2024 and 2026, respectively. The preferred equity units were originally exchangeable into equity units of BPY 
at $25.70 per  unit, at the option of the holder, at any time up to and including the maturity date. Following the 
privatization of BPY (“BPY privatization”), the preferred equity units became exchangeable into cash equal to the 
value of the consideration that would have been received upon the BPY privatization (a combination of cash, BN and 
BAM shares, and New LP Preferred Units), based on the value of that consideration on the date of exchange. BPY 
also has the option of delivering the actual consideration (a combination of cash, BN and BAM shares, and New LP 
Preferred Units). Following the BPY privatization, we have agreed with the holder to grant the company the right to 
purchase all or any portion of the preferred equity units of the holder at maturity, and to grant the holder the right 
to sell all or any portion of the preferred equity units of the holder at maturity, in each case at a price equal to the 
issue price for such preferred equity units  plus accrued and unpaid distributions. On December 30, 2021 and 
December 31, 2024, the company acquired the tranches redeemable in 2021 and 2024 from the holder and 
subsequently exchanged such units for LP Units and Redemption-Exchange Units of BPY. The preferred equity units 
were subsequently cancelled.
Commitments of $6.3 billion (2023 – $6.2 billion) represent various contractual obligations assumed in the normal 
course of business by our various operating subsidiaries. These included commitments to provide bridge financing 
and letters of credit and guarantees provided in respect of power sales contracts and reinsurance obligations as 
well as capital expenditure commitments related to contracted project costs assumed as part of recent acquisitions. 
These commitments shall be funded through the cash flows of the company’s subsidiaries.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 97

The company and its consolidated subsidiaries execute agreements that provide for indemnifications and 
guarantees to third parties in transactions or dealings such as business dispositions, business acquisitions, sales of 
assets, provision of services, securitization agreements and underwriting and agency agreements. The company has 
also agreed to indemnify its directors and certain of its officers and employees. The nature of substantially all of the 
indemnification undertakings prevents the company from making a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential 
amount the company could be required to pay third parties, as in most cases the agreements do not specify a 
maximum amount, and the amounts are dependent upon the outcome of future contingent events, the nature and 
likelihood of which cannot be determined at this time. Neither the company nor its consolidated subsidiaries have 
made significant payments in the past, nor do they expect at this time to make any significant payments under such 
indemnification agreements in the future. 
The company periodically enters into joint venture, consortium or other arrangements that have contingent liquidity 
rights in favor of the company or its counterparties. These include buy sell arrangements, registration rights and 
other customary arrangements. These agreements generally have embedded protective terms that mitigate the risk 
to us. The amount, timing and likelihood of any payments by the company under these arrangements is, in most 
cases, dependent on either future contingent events or circumstances applicable to the counterparty and therefore 
cannot be determined at this time. 
We have also committed to purchase power produced by certain of BEP’s hydroelectric assets as previously 
described on page 74.
EXPOSURES TO SELECTED FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
As discussed elsewhere in this MD&A, we utilize various financial instruments in our business to manage risk and 
make better use of our capital. The fair values of these instruments that are reflected on our balance sheets are 
disclosed in Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements.
98 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

PART 5
ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND INTERNAL CONTROLS
ACCOUNTING POLICIES, ESTIMATES AND JUDGMENTS
OVERVIEW
We are a publicly held Canadian corporation and, as such, we prepare our consolidated financial statements in 
accordance with IFRS Accounting Standards. 
We present our consolidated balance sheets on a non-classified basis, meaning that we do not distinguish between 
current and long-term assets or liabilities. We believe this classification is appropriate given the nature of our 
business strategy.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to select appropriate accounting 
policies and to make judgments and estimates that affect the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and 
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported 
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual amounts could differ from those estimates.
In making judgments and estimates, management relies on external information and observable conditions, where 
possible, supplemented by internal analysis, as required. These estimates have been applied in a manner consistent 
with the prior year and there are no known trends, commitments, events or uncertainties that we believe will 
materially affect the methodology or assumptions utilized in this report. As we update the fair values of our 
investment property portfolios quarterly, with gains reflected in net income, we discuss judgments and estimates 
relating to the key valuation metrics in Note 11 of the 2024 audited consolidated financial statements and below.
For further reference on accounting policies, including new and revised standards issued by the IASB and judgments 
and estimates, see our accounting policies contained in Note  2 of the 2024  audited consolidated financial 
statements.
ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES
IFRS Accounting Standards use a control-based model to determine if consolidation is required. Therefore, we are 
deemed to control an investment if we: (1) exercise power over the investee; (2) are exposed to variable returns 
from our involvement with the investee; and (3)  have the ability to use our power to affect the amount of the 
returns. Due to the ownership structure of many of our subsidiaries, we control entities in which we hold only a 
minority economic interest. Please refer to Part 2 – Review of Consolidated Financial Results for additional 
information.
i. Investment Properties
We classify the majority of the property assets within our Real Estate segment as investment properties. Our 
valuations are prepared at the individual property level by internal investment professionals with the appropriate 
expertise in the respective industry, geography and asset type. These valuations are updated at each balance sheet 
date with gains or losses recognized in net income. 
The majority of underlying cash flows in the models are comprised of contracted leases, many of which are long 
term. As at December 31, 2024, our office portfolio (core and transitional and development) has a combined 89% 
occupancy level and an 8-year average lease life, while our retail portfolio (core and transitional and development) 
has a combined occupancy rate of 95%. The models also include property-level assumptions for renewal 
probabilities, future leasing rates and capital expenditures. These are reviewed as part of the business planning 
process and external market data is utilized when determining the cash flows associated with lease renewals. 
Additionally, each year we sell a number of assets, which also provides support for our valuations, as we typically 
contract at prices comparable to IFRS values.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 99

We test the outcome of our process by having a number of our properties externally appraised each year, including 
appraisals for core office properties, at least on a three-year rotating basis. These appraisals, along with market 
comparables and third-party valuation metric analyses, are used to support our internally-prepared valuations; 
significant differences are reconciled as they arise. For the year ended December 31, 2024, 154 external appraisals 
of our office properties were performed representing $41.5 billion of assets; external appraisals were within 3% of 
management’s valuations.
The valuations are most sensitive to changes in cash flows, which include assumptions relating to lease renewal 
probabilities, downtime, capital expenditures, future leasing rates and associated leasing costs, discount rates 
and terminal capitalization rates. The key valuation metrics of our real estate assets as at December 31, 2024 and 
December 31, 2023 are summarized below.
AS AT DEC. 31
Core
Transitional and 
development LP investments
1
Weighted average
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Discount rate    ...................................  6.3%  6.2%  7.9%  7.9%  9.1%  8.6%  8.1%  8.0% 
Terminal capitalization rate       .........  4.8%  4.8%  6.3%  6.2%  6.2%  5.8%  5.9%  5.7% 
Investment horizon (years)   ...........  11  11  10  10  14  13  12  12 
1.  The change in rates compared to the prior year reflect the deconsolidation of BSREP IV.
The following table presents the impact on the fair value of our consolidated investment properties as at   
December 31, 2024 from a 25-basis point change to the relevant unobservable inputs in isolation and does not 
present the impact on the fair value from other factors such as changes in cash flows or inflation. For properties 
valued using the discounted cash flow method, the basis point change in valuation metrics relates to a change in 
discount and terminal capitalization rates. For properties valued using the direct capitalization approach, the basis 
point change in valuation metrics relates to a change in the overall capitalization rate. These amounts represent the 
effect on all consolidated investment property assets within our consolidated financial statements on a pre-tax 
basis, including amounts attributed to non-controlling interests in our perpetual affiliates and private fund 
investments. The amounts attributable to shareholders may be significantly less than shown depending on 
ownership levels in the individual assets.
AS AT DEC. 31, 2024
(MILLIONS) Fair Value Sensitivity
Core    ................................................................................................................................................................. $ 18,501 $ 1,314 
Transitional and development   ..................................................................................................................  21,495  584 
LP Investments    .............................................................................................................................................  58,446  2,101 
Other investment properties   ....................................................................................................................  5,223  161 
Total      ............................................................................................................................................................... $ 103,665 $ 4,160 
ii. Revaluation Method for PP&E
We revalue PP&E within our Renewable Power and Transition segment using the discounted cash flow (“DCF”) 
method and our Infrastructure segment using DCF and the depreciated replacement cost (“DRC”) methods. Our real 
estate hospitality assets are valued using the DRC method. PP&E within our Private Equity segment is recorded at 
cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. 
Assets subject to the revaluation approach are revalued annually using a bottom-up approach, starting at the 
operating level with local professionals, and involving multiple levels of review, including by senior management. 
Changes in fair value are reported through other comprehensive income as revaluation surplus. Underlying cash 
flows used in DCF models are subject to detailed reviews as part of business planning, with discount rates and other 
key variable inputs reviewed for reasonability and the models reviewed for mathematical accuracy. Key inputs are 
frequently compared to third-party reports commissioned by the respective entities to assess reasonability. In 
addition, comparable market transactions are analyzed to consider for benchmarking. Additional information about 
the revaluation methodology and current year results is provided below.
100 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

When determining the carrying value of PP&E using the revaluation method, the company uses the following 
assumptions and estimates: the timing of forecasted revenues; future sales prices and associated expenses; future 
sales volumes; future regulatory rates; maintenance and other capital expenditures; discount rates; terminal 
capitalization rates; terminal valuation dates; useful lives; and residual values. Determination of the fair value of 
PP&E under development includes estimates in respect of the timing and cost to complete the development. This 
process is further discussed in Part 2 – Review of Consolidated Financial Results.
Renewable Power and Transition
We use an unlevered 20-year DCF, with a terminal value that is built from the bottom-up and determined, where 
appropriate, using the Gordon Growth Model for perpetual assets, such as hydroelectric facilities. For assets with 
finite lives, such as wind and solar farms, the residual asset value is used based on the estimated remaining service 
life and the residual asset value is used to represent the terminal value. 
Key model inputs include contract prices, forward merchant power prices, long-term average generation estimates, 
operating expenses, capital expenditures, tax rates, exit dates, terminal capitalization rates, and discount rates. A 
few of the critical assumptions are described in more detail below:
• Pricing forecasts consist of the following inputs:
◦ Where power purchase agreements are in place, contracted power prices are utilized for the remaining 
term of these agreements.
◦ Thereafter, or to the extent that the underlying renewable power asset is not contracted, we estimate 
merchant pricing based on a mix of external data and our own estimates. Short-term merchant pricing is 
based on four years of externally sourced broker quotes in North America, regulated market operator 
pricing in Europe, and local market pricing in South America. We ensure to link our short-term pricing by 
linear extrapolation to our view of long-term power pricing below. 
◦ Long term pricing is driven by the economics required to support new entrants into the various power 
markets in which we operate. The year of new entry is viewed as the point when generators must build 
additional capacity to maintain system reliability and provide an adequate level of reserve generation with 
the retirement of older coal-fired plants and rising environmental compliance costs in North America and 
Europe, and overall increasing demand in Colombia and Brazil. Once the year of new entrant is determined, 
data from industry sources, as well as inputs from our development teams, is used to model the all-in cost 
of the expected technology mix of new construction, and the resulting market price required to support its 
development. Our long-term pricing view is anchored to the cost of securing new energy from renewable 
sources to meet future demand growth by the years 2028 to 2035 in North America, by 2030 in Colombia 
and by 2028 in Brazil. For the North American businesses, we have estimated our renewable power assets 
will contract at a discount to new-build wind, solar and battery prices (the most likely source of new 
renewable generation in those regions). In Brazil and Colombia, the estimate of future electricity prices is 
based on a similar approach as applied in North America using a forecast of the all-in cost of development.
• Energy generation forecasts are based on LTA for which we have significant historical data. LTA for hydroelectric 
facilities is based on third-party engineering reports commissioned during asset acquisitions and financing 
activities. These studies are based  on  statistical models supported by decades of historical river flow data. 
Similarly, LTA for wind facilities is based on third-party wind resource studies completed prior to construction or 
acquisition. LTA for solar facilities is based on third-party irradiance level studies at the location of our project 
sites during construction or acquisition.
• Capital expenditure forecasts rely on independent engineering reports commissioned from reputable third-
party firms during underwriting or financings.
• Our discount rates, which are adjusted based on asset level and regional considerations, are compared to 
implied rates from recent market transitions where possible for reasonability.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 101

Review of our models also includes assessing comparable market transactions. We compare EBITDA multiples and 
value per megawatt at the asset level to recent market transactions; at the portfolio basis, we compare valuation 
multiples to our most comparable competitors in the market and the resulting book value of our equity after 
revaluation to our share price in the market. For example, we have noted from reviews of market transactions in the 
U.S. northeast that the multiples paid for the asset indicate that market participants likely share our view on 
escalating power prices in the region.
In 2024, the fair value of the PP&E in our Renewable Power and Transition segment increased by $5.9  billion, 
primarily attributable to higher power pricing across select markets and the expected growth in demand for 
renewable power.
The key valuation metrics of our hydroelectric, wind and solar generating facilities at the end of 2024 and 2023 are 
summarized below:
North America Colombia Brazil Europe
2
AS AT DEC. 31 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Discount rate
Contracted    ................ 5.1 – 5.8% 5.1 – 5.7%          8.5%  8.7%          9.6%  8.4% 4.9 – 6.6%  4.8% 
Uncontracted    ........... 6.3 – 7.2% 6.3 – 7.0%          9.8%  10.0%  10.9%  9.7% 4.9 – 6.6%  4.8% 
Terminal 
capitalization rate
1
     . 4.3 – 5.1% 4.4 – 5.0%          7.3%  8.0% n/a n/a n/a n/a
Investment horizon   .... 2048 2046 2044 2043 2052 2053 2047 2037
1. The terminal capitalization rate applies only to hydroelectric assets in North America and Colombia.
2. The change in uncontracted rates compared to the prior year reflect change in asset mix to include certain development and merchant assets in 
Europe.
The following table presents the impact on fair value of PP&E in our Renewable Power and Transition segment as at 
December 31, 2024 from a 25-basis point change in discount and terminal capitalization rates, as well as a 5% 
change in electricity  prices. These amounts represent the effect on all consolidated PP&E assets within the 
consolidated financial statements of BN on a pre-tax basis, including amounts attributed to non-controlling interests 
in our listed affiliates and private fund investments. The amounts attributable to shareholders may be significantly 
less than shown depending on ownership levels in the individual assets.
AS AT DEC. 31, 2024
(MILLIONS) Fair Value Sensitivity
25 bps change in discount and terminal capitalization rates
1
North America    ........................................................................................................................................... $ 44,538 $ 2,230 
Colombia    .....................................................................................................................................................  12,431  601 
Brazil    ............................................................................................................................................................  4,283  87 
Europe  .........................................................................................................................................................  7,144  38 
5% change in electricity prices
North America    ...........................................................................................................................................  44,538  1,595 
Colombia    .....................................................................................................................................................  12,431  561 
Brazil    ............................................................................................................................................................  4,283  104 
Europe  .........................................................................................................................................................  7,144  15 
1. The terminal capitalization rate applies only to hydroelectric assets in North America and Colombia.
Terminal values are included in the valuation of hydroelectric assets in the U.S., Canada, and Colombia. For the 
hydroelectric assets in Brazil, cash flows have been included based on the duration of the authorization or useful 
life of a concession asset plus a one-time 30-year renewal term for the majority of the hydroelectric assets. The 
weighted-average remaining duration or useful life of a concession asset as at December 31, 2024, including a one-
time 30-year renewal for applicable hydroelectric assets, is 30 years (2023 – 34 years). Consequently, there is no 
terminal value attributed to the hydroelectric assets in Brazil at the end of the authorization term.
102 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

Energy Contracts
The New York power contract is the only power contract that remains in place between the Corporation and BEP. 
Under the contract, we are required to purchase power that BEP generates at certain of its New York assets at a 
fixed price. Based on LTA, we purchase approximately 4,100 GWh of power from BEP each year pursuant to a long-
term contract at a predetermined price, which represents 12% of BEP’s power generation. The fixed price that we 
are required to pay BEP increases annually based on inflation, not to exceed 3%. In addition, from 2021 to 2025, the 
price will gradually step down by $3/MWh a year, followed by a $5/MWh reduction in 2026. The contract expires in 
2046 and provides us the right to terminate the agreement in 2036.
The contract is valued annually based on price curves as at year end incorporating revised discount rates as 
required. As at December 31, 2024, the contract was valued using weighted-average forward power price estimates 
of approximately $95/MWh in years 1-10 and $169/MWh in years 11-20, using a discount rate of approximately 
7.1%.
Infrastructure
Our infrastructure assets, revalued using DCF models, are generally subject to contractual and regulatory 
frameworks that underpin the cash flows. We also include the benefits of development projects for existing in-place 
assets to the extent that they have been determined to be feasible, typically by external parties, and have received 
the appropriate approvals. We are unable to include the benefits of development projects within our business that 
are not considered improvements to existing PP&E.
The underlying cash flow models supporting the revaluation process include a number of different inputs and 
variables with risks mitigated through controls incorporated in the bottom-up preparation and review process. 
Inputs are reviewed for qualitative and quantitative considerations and the mechanical accuracy is tested by 
appropriate finance and investment professionals. 
When assessing the reasonability of our DCF models, we determine whether there are comparable transactions that 
we can consider for the purposes of benchmarking. Metrics such as the implied current year or forward-looking 
EBITDA multiples are reviewed against market transactions and public companies to assess whether our valuations 
are appropriate. We also assess whether the inputs used in the models are consistent amongst asset classes and 
geographies, where applicable, or that asset specific differences are supportable considering transactions in a given 
asset class or market.
Additionally, as part of our private fund valuation process, we obtain third-party appraisals on our fund investments 
on a three-year rotating basis. These appraisals are not directly utilized in the financial statements, rather they are 
used to confirm that management’s assumptions in determining fair value are within a reasonable range.
On an aggregate basis, the value of the appraised assets is greater than the book value because a significant portion 
of our infrastructure operations assets such as public service concessions are classified as intangible assets. These 
intangible assets are carried at amortized cost, subject to impairment tests, and are amortized over their useful 
lives. In addition, we have contracted growth projects within our businesses that cannot be included in IFRS fair 
value unless these relate to improvements on existing PP&E.
Within our Infrastructure segment, we reported valuation gains of $1.4 billion in 2024. The gain was primarily due to 
volume growth and inflation indexation, as well as increased spread assumptions at a number of our businesses.
The key valuation metrics of our utilities, transport and midstream operations are summarized below:
Utilities Transport Midstream
1
AS AT DEC. 31 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Discount rate   .......................................... 8% – 15% 8% – 11% 10%  9 % 15% 15%
Terminal value multiples     ..................... 16x 15x 9x – 20x 8x – 20x 8x – 10x 10x
Investment horizon (years)     ................. 10 – 20 10 – 20  10  10 1 – 2  6 
 1.  The change in the Investment horizon compared to the prior year reflect the exit time for certain gas and storage businesses.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 103

Real Estate and Other
Hospitality assets, primarily hotel and resort operations, are valued using the  depreciated replacement cost 
method, which factors in age, physical condition and construction costs of the properties. Fair values of hospitality 
properties are also reviewed in reference to each asset’s enterprise value determined using a discounted cash flow 
model. These valuations are generally prepared by external valuation professionals using information provided by 
management of the operating business. The fair value estimates for hospitality assets represent the estimated fair 
value of the PP&E of the hospitality business only and do not include any associated intangible assets. Hospitality 
assets are revalued annually, with changes in fair value reported through other comprehensive income as 
revaluation surplus.
iii. Financial Instruments
Financial assets, financial contracts and other contractual arrangements that are treated as derivatives are recorded 
at fair value in our financial statements and changes in their value are recorded in net income or other 
comprehensive income, depending on their nature and business purpose. The more significant and more common 
financial contracts and contractual arrangements employed in our business that are fair valued include: interest 
rate contracts, foreign exchange contracts and agreements for the sale of electricity. Financial assets and liabilities 
may be classified as Level 1, 2 or 3 in the fair value hierarchy. Refer to Note 6 Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
within the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.
Estimates and assumptions used in determining the fair value of financial instruments are: equity and commodity 
prices; future interest rates; the credit worthiness of the company relative to its counterparties; the credit risk of the 
company’s counterparties; estimated future cash flows; the amount of the liability and equity components of 
compound financial instruments; discount rates and volatility utilized in option valuations.
iv. Inventory 
The company estimates the net realizable value of its inventory using estimates and assumptions about future 
selling prices and future development costs. 
v. Other  
Other estimates and assumptions utilized in the preparation of the company’s consolidated financial statements 
are: the assessment or determination of net recoverable amount; oil and gas reserves; depreciation and 
amortization rates and useful lives; estimation of recoverable amounts of cash-generating units for impairment 
assessments of goodwill and intangible assets; ability to utilize tax losses and other tax measurements; fair value of 
assets held as collateral and the percentage of completion for construction contracts. Equity accounted 
investments, which follow the same accounting principles as our consolidated operations, include amounts 
recorded at fair value and amounts recorded at amortized cost or cost, depending on the nature of the underlying 
assets.
104 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

ACCOUNTING JUDGMENTS
Management is required to make critical judgments when applying its accounting policies. The following judgments 
have the most significant effect on the consolidated financial statements:
i. Control or Level of Influence 
When determining the appropriate basis of accounting for the company’s investees, the company makes judgments 
about the degree of influence that it has the ability to exert directly or through an arrangement over the investees’ 
relevant activities. This may include the  ability to elect investee directors or appoint management. Control is 
obtained when the company has the power to direct the relevant investing, financing and operating decisions of an 
entity and does so in its capacity as principal of the operations, rather than as an agent for other investors. 
Operating as a principal includes having sufficient capital at risk in any investee and exposure to the variability of 
the returns generated as a result of the decisions of the company as principal. Judgment is used in determining the 
sufficiency of the capital at risk or variability of returns. In making these judgments, the company considers the 
ability of other investors to remove the company as a manager or general partner in a controlled partnership. Refer 
to Part 2 – Review of Consolidated Financial Results for additional information.
ii. Investment Properties
When applying the company’s accounting policy for investment properties, judgment is applied in determining 
whether certain costs are additions to the carrying amount of the property and, for properties under development, 
identifying the point at which practical completion of the property occurs and identifying the directly attributable 
borrowing costs to be included in the carrying value of the development property. 
iii. Property, Plant and Equipment 
The company’s accounting policy for its PP&E requires critical judgments over the assessment of carrying value, 
whether certain costs are additions to the carrying amount of the PP&E as opposed to repairs and maintenance, 
and for assets under development the identification of when the asset is capable of being used as intended 
and identifying the directly attributable borrowing costs to be included in the asset’s carrying value.
For assets that are measured using the revaluation method, judgment is required when estimating future prices, 
volumes, discount and capitalization rates. Judgment is applied when determining future electricity prices 
considering broker quotes for the years in which there is a liquid market available and, for the subsequent years, 
our best estimate of electricity prices from renewable sources that would allow new entrants into the market.
iv. Identifying Performance Obligations for Revenue Recognition
Management is required to identify performance obligations relating to contracts with customers at the inception of 
each contract. IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers  requires a contract’s transaction price to be allocated 
to each distinct performance obligation when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied. Judgment is used when 
assessing the pattern of delivery of the product or service to determine if revenue should be recognized at a point in 
time or over time. For certain service contracts recognized over time, judgment is required to determine if revenue 
from variable consideration such as incentives, claims and variations from contract modifications has met the 
required probability threshold to be recognized.
Management also uses judgment to determine whether contracts for the sale of products and services have distinct 
performance obligations that should be accounted for separately or as a single performance obligation. Goods and 
services are considered distinct if: (1) a customer can benefit from the good or service either on its own or together 
with other resources that are readily available to the customer; and (2) the entity’s promise to transfer the good or 
service to the customer is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract.
Additional details about revenue recognition policies across our operating segments are included in Note 3 of the 
consolidated financial statements.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 105

v. Common Control Transactions 
The purchase and sale of businesses or subsidiaries between entities under common control are not specifically 
addressed in IFRS Accounting Standards and accordingly, management uses judgment when determining a policy to 
account for such transactions taking into consideration other guidance in the IFRS framework and pronouncements 
of other standard-setting bodies. The company’s policy is to record assets and liabilities recognized as a result of 
transfers of businesses or subsidiaries between entities under common control at carrying value. Differences 
between the carrying amount of the consideration given or received and the carrying amount of the assets and 
liabilities transferred are recorded directly in equity. 
vi. Indicators of Impairment 
Judgment is applied when determining whether indicators of impairment exist when assessing the carrying values 
of the company’s assets, including: the determination of the company’s ability to hold financial assets; the 
estimation of a cash-generating unit’s  future revenues and direct costs; the determination of discount and 
capitalization rates; and when an asset’s carrying value is above the value derived using publicly traded prices which 
are quoted in a liquid market.
vii. Income Taxes 
The company makes judgments when determining the future tax rates applicable to subsidiaries and identifying the 
temporary differences that relate to each subsidiary. Deferred income tax assets and  liabilities are measured at 
the tax rates that are expected to apply during the period when the assets are realized or the liabilities settled, using 
the tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the consolidated balance sheet dates. The company 
measures deferred income taxes associated with its investment properties based on its specific intention with 
respect to each asset at the end of the reporting period. Where the company has a specific intention to sell a 
property in the foreseeable future, deferred taxes on the building portion of an investment property are measured 
based on the tax consequences that would follow the disposition of the property. Otherwise, deferred taxes are 
measured on the basis that the carrying value of the investment property will be recovered substantially through 
use.
viii. Classification of Non-Controlling Interests in Limited-Life Funds 
Non-controlling interests in limited-life funds are classified as liabilities (subsidiary equity obligations) or equity (non-
controlling interests) depending on whether an obligation exists to distribute residual net assets to non-controlling 
interests on liquidation in the form of cash or another financial asset or assets delivered in kind. Judgment is 
required to determine what the governing documents of each entity require or permit in this regard. 
ix. Other 
Other critical judgments include the determination of effectiveness of financial hedges for accounting purposes, the 
likelihood and timing of anticipated transactions for hedge accounting and the determination of functional currency.
CONSOLIDATION UNDER IFRS ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
As a Canadian domiciled public corporation, we report under IFRS Accounting Standards, while other issuers that 
may be considered peers report under U.S. GAAP. These GAAPs are aligned in many areas, but as it relates to asset 
management and investment companies, there is a significant difference between IFRS and U.S. GAAP Accounting 
Standards. Under IFRS Accounting Standards, while investment companies can account for their investments at fair 
value and report them on one line in their balance sheet on a net basis, a parent of an investment company cannot 
maintain that accounting and must look to whether it controls the underlying investments individually. For issuers 
under U.S. GAAP, investment companies can use the same treatment as in IFRS Accounting Standards but the 
parent of an investment company would keep the same reporting as the subsidiary investment company. 
Therefore, the same investment could be fully consolidated under IFRS Accounting Standards or shown as one line 
on a net basis under U.S. GAAP.
106 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

IFRS Accounting Standards use a control-based model to determine if consolidation is required. Therefore, we are 
deemed to control an investment if we: (1) exercise power over the investee; (2) are exposed to variable returns 
from our involvement with the investee; and (3) have the ability to use our power to affect the amount of the 
returns. Due to the ownership structure of many of our subsidiaries, we control entities in which we hold only a 
minority economic interest. Please refer to Part 2 – Review of Consolidated Financial Results for additional 
information. Our consolidation conclusions may differ from certain other issuers who report under U.S. GAAP as 
they are required to evaluate consolidation requirements using a voting interest model or a variable interest model 
depending on the circumstances.
MANAGEMENT REPRESENTATIONS AND INTERNAL CONTROLS
ASSESSMENTS AND CHANGES IN INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
Management has evaluated the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting (as defined 
in the applicable U.S. and Canadian securities laws) as of December 31, 2024 and based on that assessment 
concluded that, as of December 31, 2024, our internal control over financial reporting was effective. Refer to 
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. There have been no changes in our internal 
control over financial reporting during the quarter or year ended December 31, 2024 that have materially affected, 
or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of 
our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in the applicable U.S. and Canadian securities laws) as 
of December 31, 2024. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded 
that such disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2024. 
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 
In the normal course of operations, we enter into transactions on market terms with related parties, including 
consolidated and equity accounted entities, which have been measured at the exchange value and are recognized in 
the consolidated financial statements, including, but not limited to: manager or partnership agreements; base 
management fees, performance fees and incentive distributions; loans, interest and non-interest bearing deposits; 
power purchase and sale agreements; capital commitments to private funds; the acquisition and disposition of 
assets and businesses; derivative contracts; and the construction and development of assets. 
Refer to Note 27 Related Party Transactions in the consolidated financial statements for further details. 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 107

PART 6
BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND RISKS 
For purposes of Part 6 of this Report, unless the context requires otherwise, references to the “company”, “we”, “us” 
or “our” refers to Brookfield Corporation, its consolidated subsidiaries (including our Asset Management business), 
BWS and Oaktree.
This section contains a review of certain aspects of the business environment and risks that could materially 
adversely impact our business, performance, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the value of 
our securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not previously known to the company, or that the company 
currently deems immaterial, may also impact our operations and financial results.
a)     Volatility in the Trading Price of Our Class A Shares
The trading price of our Class A shares is subject to volatility due to market conditions and other factors and cannot be 
predicted.
Our shareholders may not be able to sell their Class A shares at or above the price at which they purchased such 
shares due to trading price fluctuations in the capital markets. The trading price could fluctuate significantly in 
response to factors both related and unrelated to our operating performance and/or future prospects, including, 
but not limited to: (i) variations in our operating results and financial condition; (ii) actual or prospective changes in 
government laws, rules or regulations affecting our businesses; (iii) material announcements by us, our affiliates or 
our competitors; (iv) the general state of the securities markets; (v) market conditions and events specific to the 
industries in which we operate; (vi) changes and developments in general economic, political, or social conditions, 
including as a result of pandemics/epidemics and related economic disruptions; (vii) changes in the values of our 
investments (including in the market price of our listed affiliates) or changes in the amount of distributions, 
dividends or interest paid in respect of investments; (viii) differences between our actual financial and operating 
results and those expected by investors and analysts; (ix) changes in analysts’ recommendations or earnings 
projections; (x) changes in the extent of analysts’ interest in covering the company and its listed affiliates; (xi) the 
depth and liquidity of the market for our Class A shares; (xii) dilution from the issuance of additional equity, 
including as a result of exchanges or additional issuances of shares exchangeable for Class A shares such as 
exchanges of class A exchangeable voting shares of BWS (“BWS exchangeable shares”); (xiii) investor perception of 
our businesses and the industries in which we operate; (xiv) investment restrictions; (xv) our dividend policy; (xvi) 
the departure of key executives; (xvii) sales of Class A shares by senior management or significant shareholders; and 
(xviii) the materialization of other risks described in this section.
b)     Reputation
Actions or conduct that have a negative impact on investors’ or stakeholders’ perception of us could adversely impact our 
ability to attract and/or retain investor capital and generate fee revenue.
The growth of our Asset Management business relies on continuous fundraising for various private and public 
investment products, and retention of capital raised from third-party investors. We depend on our business 
relationships and our global reputation for integrity and high-caliber asset management services to attract and 
retain investors and advisory clients, and to pursue investment opportunities for us and the public and private 
entities managed by our Asset Management business. Our business relationships and reputation could be 
negatively impacted by a number of factors including poor performance; actual, potential or perceived conflicts of 
interest that are not adequately addressed; misconduct or alleged misconduct by employees; rumors or innuendos; 
or failed or ineffective implementation of new investments or strategies. If we are unable to continue to raise and 
retain capital from third-party investors, either privately, publicly or both, or otherwise are unable to pursue our 
investment opportunities, this could materially reduce our revenue and cash flows and adversely affect our financial 
condition.
108 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

Poor performance of any kind could damage our reputation with current and potential investors in managed 
entities, making it more difficult to raise new capital. Investors may decline to invest in current and future managed 
entities and may withdraw their investments from managed entities as a result of poor performance in the entity in 
which they are invested, and investors in private funds may demand lower fees for new or existing funds, all of 
which would decrease our revenue.
Our Asset Management business, as a global alternative asset manager with various lines of business and 
investment products, some of which have overlapping mandates, may be subject to a number of actual, potential or 
perceived conflicts of interest. These conflicts may be magnified for an asset manager that has many different 
capital sources available to pursue investment opportunities, including investor capital and the company’s own 
capital. In addition, the senior management team of the company and its affiliates have their own capital invested in 
Class A shares, directly and indirectly, and may have financial exposures with respect to their own investments 
which could lead to potential conflicts if such investments are similar to those made by the company or on behalf of 
investors in entities managed by our Asset Management business. 
In addressing these conflicts, we have implemented a variety of policies and procedures; however, there can be no 
assurances that these will be effective at mitigating actual, potential or perceived conflicts of interest in all 
circumstances, or will not reduce the positive synergies that we seek to cultivate across our businesses. It is also 
possible that actual, potential or perceived conflicts of interest, if not properly addressed, could give rise to investor 
dissatisfaction, litigation, regulatory enforcement actions or other detrimental outcomes.
Appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest for an asset manager is a priority and our reputation could be 
damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with actual, potential or perceived conflicts of interest. 
Asset manager conflicts are subject to enhanced regulatory scrutiny in the markets in which we operate and in the 
U.S. in particular. Such regulatory scrutiny can lead to fines, penalties and other negative consequences. Regulatory 
scrutiny of, or litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our 
reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations in a number of ways, including an inability to 
adequately capitalize existing managed entities or raise new managed entities, including private funds, and a 
reluctance of counterparties to do business with us. For information regarding conflicts of interests between the 
businesses within our asset management operations that operate on opposite sides of an information barrier, see 
Item (u) herein. 
Our reputation could also be negatively impacted if there is misconduct or alleged misconduct by our personnel, the 
personnel of our Asset Management business or those of our listed affiliates or portfolio companies in which we 
and managed entities invest, including historical misconduct prior to the investment. Risks associated with 
misconduct at our portfolio companies is heightened in cases where we do not have legal control or significant 
influence over a particular portfolio company or are not otherwise involved in actively managing a portfolio 
company. In such situations, given our ownership position and affiliation with the portfolio company, we may still be 
negatively impacted from a reputational perspective through this association. In addition, even where we have 
control over a portfolio company, if it is a newly acquired portfolio company that we are in the process of 
integrating then we may face reputational risks related to historical or current misconduct or alleged misconduct at 
such portfolio company for a period of time. We may also face increased risk of misconduct to the extent our capital 
allocated to emerging markets and distressed companies increases. If we face allegations of improper conduct by 
private litigants or regulators, whether the allegations are valid or invalid or whether the ultimate outcome is 
favorable or unfavorable to us, such allegations may result in negative publicity and press speculation about us, our 
investment activities or the asset management industry in general, which could harm our reputation and may be 
more damaging to our business than to other types of businesses.
We are subject to a number of obligations and standards arising from our Asset Management business and our 
authority over the assets we manage. The violation of these obligations and standards by any of our employees may 
adversely affect our partners and our business and reputation. Our business often requires that we deal with 
confidential matters of great significance to the companies in which we may invest and to other third parties. If our 
employees were to improperly use or disclose confidential information, or a security breach results in an 
inadvertent disclosure of such information, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position and 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 109

current and future business relationships. It is not always possible to detect or deter employee misconduct or 
security breaches, and the precautions we take in this regard may not be effective.
Implementation of new investment and growth strategies involves a number of risks that could result in losses and 
harm to our professional reputation, including the risk that the expected results are not achieved, that new 
strategies are not appropriately planned for or integrated, that new strategies may conflict with, detract from or 
compete against our existing businesses, and that the investment process, controls and procedures that we have 
developed will prove insufficient or inadequate. Furthermore, our strategic initiatives may include joint ventures, in 
which case we will be subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon and subject to 
liability, losses or reputational damage relating to systems, controls and personnel that are not under our complete 
control or under the control of another.
In addition to impacting the ability of our Asset Management business to raise and retain third-party capital and 
pursue investment opportunities, certain of the risks identified herein that may have a negative impact on our 
reputation also could, in extreme cases, result in the removal of our asset manager as general partner or an 
acceleration of the liquidation date of the private funds that are managed by it. The governing agreements of the 
private funds provide that, subject to certain conditions (which may, particularly in the case of a removal as general 
partner, include final legal adjudications of the merits of the particular issue), third-party investors in these funds 
will have the right to remove the asset manager as the general partner or to accelerate the liquidation date of the 
fund. Additionally, at any time, investors may terminate a fund and accelerate the liquidation date upon the vote of 
a super-majority of investors in such fund. A significant negative impact to our reputation would be expected to 
increase the likelihood that investors could seek to terminate a private fund. This effect would be magnified if, as is 
often the case, an investor is invested in more than one fund. Such an event, were it to occur, would result in a 
reduction in the fees earned from such fund, particularly if our Asset Management business is unable to maximize 
the value of the fund’s investments during the liquidation process or in the event of the triggering of a “clawback” 
for fees already paid out to it as general partner.
c)     Asset Management 
Growth in fee-bearing capital could be adversely impacted by poor product development or marketing efforts. In addition, 
investment returns could be lower than target returns due to inappropriate allocation of capital or ineffective investment 
management. 
Our Asset Management business depends on its ability to fundraise third-party capital, deploy that capital 
effectively, and produce targeted investment returns. 
The ability to raise third-party capital depends on a number of factors, including many that are outside the control 
of the asset manager, such as the general economic environment and the number of other investment funds being 
raised at the same time by competitors. Investors may reduce (or even eliminate) their investment allocations to 
alternative investments, including closed-ended private funds. Investors that are required to maintain specific asset 
class allocations within their portfolio may be required to reduce their investment allocations to alternative 
investments, particularly during periods when other asset classes such as public securities are decreasing in value. 
In addition, investors may prefer to insource and make direct investments; therefore, becoming competitors and 
ceasing to be clients and/or make new capital commitments. 
Competition from other asset managers for raising public and private capital is intense, with competition based on a 
variety of factors, including investment performance, the quality of service provided to investors, the quality and 
availability of investment products, marketing efforts, investor liquidity and willingness to invest, and reputation. 
Poor investment performance could hamper the ability of our Asset Management business to compete for these 
sources of capital or force it to reduce management fees. Existing investors and potential investors continually 
assess investment performance and the ability to raise capital for existing and future funds depends on the relative 
and absolute performance of funds managed by our Asset Management business. If poor investment returns or 
changes in investment mandates prevent our asset manager from raising further capital from existing partners, it 
may need to identify and attract new investors in order to maintain or increase the size of private funds, and there 
are no assurances that it will be able to find new investors. Further, as competition and disintermediation in the 
110 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

asset management industry increases, our Asset Management business may face pressure to reduce or modify 
asset management fees, including base management fees and/or carried interest, or modify other terms governing 
its current asset management fee structure, in order to attract and retain investors. 
The successful execution of our investing strategy is uncertain as it requires suitable opportunities, careful timing 
and business judgment, as well as the resources to complete asset purchases and restructure them, if required, 
notwithstanding difficulties experienced in a particular industry.
There is no certainty that we will be able to identify suitable or sufficient opportunities that meet our investment 
criteria and be able to acquire additional high-quality assets at attractive prices to supplement our growth in a 
timely manner, or at all. In pursuing investment opportunities and returns, we and the entities managed by our 
asset manager face competition from other investment managers and investors worldwide. Each of our businesses 
is subject to competition in varying degrees and our competitors may have certain competitive advantages over us 
when pursuing investment opportunities. Some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances, different risk 
assessments, lower return thresholds, a lower cost of capital, or a lower effective tax rate (or no tax rate at all), all of 
which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and to bid more aggressively than us for 
investments. We may lose investment opportunities in the future if we do not match investment prices, structures 
and terms offered by our competitors, some of whom may have synergistic businesses which allow them to 
consider bidding a higher price than we can reasonably offer. While we attempt to deal with competitive pressures 
by leveraging our asset management strengths and operating capabilities and compete on more than just price, 
there is no guarantee these measures will be successful, and we may have difficulty competing for investment 
opportunities, particularly those offered through auction or other competitive processes. If our Asset Management 
business is unable to successfully raise, retain, and deploy third-party capital into investments, it may be unable to 
collect management fees, carried interest or transaction fees, which would materially reduce our revenue and cash 
flows and adversely affect our financial condition. 
Our approach to investing often entails adding assets to our existing businesses when the competition for assets is 
weakest; typically, when depressed economic conditions exist in the market relating to a particular entity or 
industry. Such an investing style carries with it inherent risks when investments are made in either markets or 
industries that are undergoing some form of dislocation. We may fail to value opportunities accurately or to 
consider all relevant factors that may be necessary or helpful in evaluating an opportunity, may underestimate the 
costs necessary to bring an acquisition up to standards established for its intended market position, may be 
exposed to unexpected risks and costs associated with our investments, including risks arising from alternative 
technologies that could impair or eliminate the competitive advantage of our business in a particular industry, and/
or may be unable to quickly and effectively integrate new acquisitions into existing operations or exit from the 
investment on favorable terms. In addition, liabilities may exist that we or managed entities do not discover in due 
diligence prior to the consummation of an acquisition, or circumstances may exist with respect to the entities or 
assets acquired that could lead to future liabilities and, in each case, we or the managed entities may not be entitled 
to sufficient, or any, recourse against the contractual counterparties to an acquisition. 
The credit strategies of our Asset Management business offer a broad range of strategies to investors. Similar to 
other private funds managed by us across different strategies, our asset managers that pursue credit strategies 
earn base management fees and, in certain cases, carried interest on funds and separate accounts that invest in its 
credit strategies. Cyclicality is important to credit strategies and weak economic environments have tended to afford 
some of the best investment opportunities and best relative investment performance to such strategies. Any 
prolonged economic expansion or recession could have an adverse impact on certain credit strategies and 
materially affect the ability to deliver attractive investment returns for clients or generate incentive or other income 
in respect of those strategies.
We generally pursue investment opportunities that involve business, regulatory, legal and other complexities. Our 
tolerance for complexity presents risks, as such transactions can be more difficult, expensive and time-consuming 
to finance and execute, and have a higher risk of execution failure. It can also be more difficult to manage or realize 
value from the assets acquired in such transactions and such transactions sometimes entail a higher level of 
regulatory scrutiny or a greater risk of contingent liabilities. 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 111

At times, our asset manager makes investments (for one or more funds or managed entities) in companies that we 
do not control. These investments are subject to the risk that the company in which the investment is made may 
make business, financial or management decisions with which we do not agree or that the majority stakeholders or 
the management of the company may take risks or otherwise act in a manner that does not serve our interests. 
Certain investments may be concentrated in particular asset types or geographic regions, which could exacerbate 
any negative performance of one or more managed entities to the extent those concentrated investments are in 
assets or regions that experience market dislocation. In addition, certain funds hold publicly traded securities the 
price of which will be volatile and are likely to fluctuate due to a number of factors beyond our asset manager’s 
control, including actual or anticipated changes in the profitability of the issuers of such securities; general 
economic, social, or political developments; changes in industry conditions; changes in governance regulation; 
inflation; the general state of the securities markets; and other material events.
The failure of a newly acquired business to perform according to expectations could have a material adverse effect 
on our assets, liabilities, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Alternatively, we may be 
required to sell a business before it has realized our expected level of returns for such business. 
If any of the investments managed by our asset manager perform poorly or experience prolonged periods of 
volatility, or if the capital is not deployed effectively, its fee-based revenue, cash available for distribution and/or 
carried interest would decline, negatively impacting our earnings. Moreover, we could experience losses on our 
capital invested in funds managed by our asset manager. Accordingly, our expected returns on these investments 
may be less than we have assumed in forecasting the value of our business. 
d)     Laws, Rules and Regulations
We are subject to numerous laws, rules, and regulatory requirements which may impact our business, including resulting 
in financial penalties, loss of business, and/or damage to our reputation in instances of non-compliance.
There are many laws, governmental rules and regulations and listing exchange rules that apply to us, our affiliates, 
our assets and our businesses. Changes in these laws, rules and regulations, or their interpretation by 
governmental agencies or the courts, could adversely affect our business, assets or prospects, or those of our 
affiliates, customers, clients or partners. The failure of the company, our listed affiliates, or entities managed by our 
asset management company to comply with these laws, rules and regulations, or with the rules and registration 
requirements of the respective stock exchanges on which we and they are listed, could adversely affect our 
reputation and financial condition.
Our Asset Management business, including our investment advisory and broker-dealer business, is subject to 
substantial and increasing regulatory compliance obligations and oversight, and this higher level of scrutiny may 
lead to more regulatory enforcement actions. There continues to be uncertainty regarding the appropriate level of 
regulation and oversight of asset management businesses in a number of jurisdictions in which we operate. The 
financial services industry has been the subject of heightened scrutiny and enforcement actions. Regulatory 
investigations and/or enforcement actions by regulators could have a material adverse effect on our business and/
or reputation. In addition, the introduction of new legislation and increased regulation may result in increased 
compliance costs and could materially affect the manner in which we conduct our business and adversely affect our 
profitability. Although there may be some areas where governments in certain jurisdictions propose deregulation, it 
is difficult to predict the timing and impact of any such deregulation, and we may not materially benefit from any 
such changes. 
Our Asset Management business is not only regulated in the U.S., but also in other jurisdictions where we conduct 
operations including, but not limited to, the E.U., the U.K., Canada, Brazil, Colombia, Australia, India and South 
Korea. Similar to the environment in the U.S., the current environment in jurisdictions outside the U.S. in which we 
operate has become subject to further regulation. Governmental agencies around the world have proposed or 
implemented a number of initiatives and additional rules and regulations that could adversely affect our Asset 
Management business, and governmental agencies may propose or implement further rules and regulations in the 
future. These rules and regulations may impact how managed entities are marketed in these jurisdictions and 
introduce compliance obligations with respect to disclosure and transparency, as well as restrictions on investor 
112 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

participation and distributions. Such regulations may also prescribe certain capital requirements on managed 
entities, and conditions on the leverage managed entities may employ and the liquidity these managed entities 
must have. Compliance with additional regulatory requirements will impose additional restrictions and expenses for 
us and could reduce our operating flexibility and fundraising opportunities.
Our broker-dealer business is regulated by the SEC, the various Canadian provincial securities commissions, as well 
as self-regulatory organizations, including the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority in the U.S. These regulatory 
bodies may conduct administrative or enforcement proceedings that can result in censure, fine, suspension or 
expulsion of a broker-dealer, its directors, officers or employees. Such proceedings, whether or not resulting in 
adverse findings, can require substantial expenditures and can have an adverse impact on the reputation of a 
broker-dealer.
The advisors of certain managed entities are registered as investment advisers with the SEC. Registered investment 
advisers are subject to the requirements and regulations of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, which grants U.S. 
supervisory agencies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the carrying on of 
business for failure to comply with laws or regulations. If such powers are exercised, the possible sanctions that 
may be imposed include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on the activities in which the 
investment adviser may engage, suspension or revocation of the investment adviser’s registration, censure and 
fines. Compliance with these requirements and regulations results in the expenditure of resources, and a failure to 
comply could result in investigations, financial or other sanctions, and reputational damage.
The Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “40 Act”) and the rules promulgated thereunder provide certain 
protections to investors and impose certain restrictions on entities that are deemed “investment companies” under 
the 40 Act. We are not currently, nor do we intend to become, an investment company under the 40 Act. To ensure 
that we are not deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to materially restrict or limit the scope 
of our operations or plans and the types of acquisitions that we may make, and we may need to modify our 
organizational structure or dispose of assets that we would not otherwise dispose of. If we were required to register 
as an investment company, we would face severe limitations on the operation of our business. Among other things, 
we would be prohibited from engaging in certain business activities (or have conditions placed on our business 
activities), face restrictions on engaging in transactions with affiliated entities and issuing certain securities or 
engaging in certain types of financings, be restricted with respect to the amount and types of borrowings we are 
permitted to obtain, be required to limit the amount of investments that we make as principal, and face other 
limitations on our activities.
Our Asset Management business has and may become subject to additional regulatory and compliance 
requirements as it expands its product offerings and investment platform which likely will carry additional legal and 
compliance costs, as well as additional operating requirements that may also increase costs. 
We acquire and develop primarily insurance, renewable power and transition, infrastructure, business services, real 
estate, and industrial assets. In doing so, we must comply with extensive and complex municipal, state or provincial, 
national and international laws and regulations. These laws and regulations can result in uncertainty and delays, 
and impose additional costs, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in these laws and 
regulations may negatively impact us and our businesses or may benefit our competitors and their businesses.
Additionally, liability under such laws, rules and regulations may occur without our fault. In certain cases, parties can 
pursue legal actions against us to enforce compliance as well as seek damages for non-compliance or for personal 
injury or property damage. Our insurance may not provide sufficient coverage in the event that a successful claim is 
made against us.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 113

e)     Governmental Investigations, Sanctions and Anti-Bribery and Corruption
Federal, state and foreign anti-bribery and corruption and trade sanctions laws and restrictions on foreign direct 
investment applicable to us and our operating businesses create the potential for significant liabilities and penalties, the 
inability to complete transactions, imposition of significant costs and burdens, and reputational harm and we may also be 
subject to various governmental investigations.
We are from time to time subject to various governmental investigations, audits and inquiries, both formal and 
informal. These investigations, regardless of their outcome, can be costly, divert management attention and 
damage our reputation. The unfavorable resolution of such investigations could result in criminal liability, fines, 
penalties or other monetary or non-monetary sanctions and could materially affect our business or results of 
operations.
We are subject to a number of laws and regulations governing payments and contributions to public officials or 
other third parties both domestically and in respect of operations abroad, including but not limited to the U.S. 
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (the “FCPA”), various federal and state corruption laws, and similar laws in 
non-U.S. jurisdictions, such as the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, the Canadian Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act 
(“CFPOA”) and Part IV of the Criminal Code (Canada), the Brazilian Clean Companies Act, the Australian Criminal Code 
Act 1995, the Indian Prevention of Corruption Act, and the Bermudian Bribery Act 2016. This global focus on anti-
bribery and corruption enforcement may also lead to more investigations, both formal and informal, in this area, 
the results of which cannot be predicted.
Instances of bribery, fraud, accounting irregularities and other improper, illegal or corrupt practices can be difficult 
to detect, in particular when conducting due diligence in connection with acquisitions, and fraud and other 
deceptive practices can be widespread in certain jurisdictions. We invest in emerging market countries that may not 
have established stringent anti-bribery and corruption laws and regulations, where existing laws and regulations 
may not be consistently enforced, or that are perceived to have materially higher levels of corruption according to 
international rating standards. Due diligence on investment opportunities in these jurisdictions is frequently more 
challenging because consistent and uniform commercial practices in such locations may not have developed or do 
not meet international standards. Bribery, fraud, accounting irregularities and corrupt practices can be especially 
difficult to detect in such locations. When acquiring assets in distress, the quality of financial information of the 
target may also make it difficult to identify irregularities. 
The FCPA prohibits bribery of non-U.S. officials, candidates for office and political parties, and requires U.S. 
companies to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect those companies’ transactions. Similar laws 
in non-U.S. jurisdictions, such as the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 and the CFPOA, as well as other applicable anti-bribery 
and corruption or related laws in the U.S. and abroad, may also impose stricter or more onerous requirements than 
the FCPA, and implementing them may disrupt our business or cause us to incur significantly more costs to comply 
with those laws. The policies and procedures we have implemented to comply with anti-bribery and corruption 
legislation may be inadequate. If we fail to comply with such laws and regulations, we could be exposed to claims 
for damages, financial penalties, incarceration of our employees, reputational harm, restrictions on our operations 
and other liabilities, which could negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may 
be subject to successor liability for violations under these laws and regulations or other acts of bribery committed 
by entities in which we or managed entities invest.
We are also subject to laws and regulations governing trade and economic sanctions. The Office of Foreign Assets 
Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury (“OFAC”), the U.S. Department of Commerce and the U.S. 
Department of State administer and enforce various trade control laws and regulations, including economic and 
trade sanctions based on U.S. foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign states, 
organizations and individuals. These laws and regulations implicate a number of aspects of our business, including 
servicing existing fund investors, finding new fund investors, and sourcing new investments, as well as activities by 
the portfolio companies in our investment portfolio or other controlled investments. Some of these regulations 
provide that penalties can be imposed on us for the conduct of a portfolio company, even if we have not ourselves 
violated any regulation. Similar laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions, such as the Special Economic Measures Act (Canada), the 
114 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

United Nations Act (Canada) and the Justice for Victims of Corrupt Foreign Officials Act (Canada), and E.U. sanctions, may 
also impose restrictions or requirements on us or our operating businesses. Applicable laws of various jurisdictions 
may contain conflicting provisions, making our compliance more difficult. For example, Canada has adopted 
measures, such as the Canadian Foreign Extraterritorial Measures Act, that could restrict certain persons and 
entities subject to Canadian jurisdiction from complying with extra-territorial sanctions imposed by other 
jurisdictions, such as the U.S. In February 2022, the U.S. and other countries began imposing meaningful sanctions 
targeting Russia as a result of actions taken by Russia in Ukraine. We and our portfolio companies are required to 
comply with these and potentially additional sanctions imposed by the U.S. and by other countries, for which the full 
costs, burdens, and limitations on our business and prospects are currently unknown and may become significant. 
In addition, the U.S. and many non-U.S. countries that have laws designed to protect national security or to restrict 
foreign direct investment. For example, under the United States Foreign Investment Risk Review Modernization Act 
(“FIRRMA”), the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (“CFIUS”) has the authority to review, block or 
impose conditions on investments by non-U.S. persons in U.S. companies or real assets deemed critical or sensitive 
to the U.S. Many non-U.S. jurisdictions have similar laws. For example, the E.U. has adopted an E.U.-wide 
mechanism to screen foreign investment on national security grounds and most E.U. member states now have a 
foreign investment screening mechanism in place or has initiated a consultative or legislative process expected to 
result in the adoption of a new mechanism or amendments to an existing mechanism, adopted a regulation aimed 
at regulation of foreign subsidies that could distort the internal E.U. market. 
Under these laws, governments have the authority to impose a variety of actions, including requirements for the 
advance screening or notification of certain transactions, blocking or imposing conditions on certain transactions, 
limiting the size of foreign equity investments or control by foreign investors, and restricting the employment of 
foreigners as key personnel. These actions could limit our ability to find suitable investments, cause delays in 
consummating transactions, result in the abandonment of transactions, and impose burdensome operational 
requirements on us or our portfolio companies. These laws could also negatively impact our fundraising and 
syndication activities by causing us to exclude or limit certain investors in our funds or co-investors for our 
transactions. Moreover, these laws may make it difficult for us to identify suitable buyers for our investments that 
we want to exit and could constrain the universe of exit opportunities generally. Complying with these laws imposes 
potentially significant costs and complex additional burdens, and any failure by us or our portfolio companies to 
comply with them could expose us to significant penalties, sanctions, loss of future investment opportunities, 
additional regulatory scrutiny, and reputational harm. 
f)      Financial Obligations and Liquidity
Cash must be available to meet our financial obligations when due and enable us to capitalize on investment opportunities 
when they arise.
We employ debt and other forms of leverage in the ordinary course of business to enhance returns to our investors 
and finance our operations. We are therefore subject to the risks associated with debt financing and refinancing, 
including but not limited to the following: (i) our cash flow may be insufficient to meet required payments of 
principal and interest; (ii) payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash 
resources to pay operating expenses and dividends; (iii) if we are unable to obtain committed debt financing for 
potential acquisitions or can only obtain debt at high interest rates or on other unfavorable terms, we may have 
difficulty completing acquisitions or may generate profits that are lower than would otherwise be the case; (iv) we 
may not be able to refinance indebtedness at maturity due to company and market factors such as the estimated 
cash flow produced by our assets, the value of our assets, liquidity in the debt markets, and/or financial, 
competitive, business and other factors; and (v) if we are able to refinance our indebtedness, the terms of a 
refinancing may not be as favorable as the original terms for such indebtedness. If we are unable to refinance our 
indebtedness on acceptable terms, or at all, we may need to utilize available liquidity, which would reduce our 
ability to pursue new investment opportunities, or we may need to dispose of one or more of our assets on 
disadvantageous terms, or raise equity, thereby causing dilution to existing shareholders. Regulatory changes or 
changes in economic or market conditions may also result in higher borrowing costs and reduced access to credit. 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 115

The terms of our various credit agreements and other financing documents require us to comply with a number of 
customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage and leverage ratios, adequate 
insurance coverage and certain credit ratings. These covenants may limit our flexibility in conducting our operations 
and breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable 
indebtedness, even if we have satisfied and continue to satisfy our payment obligations.
A large proportion of our capital is invested in physical assets and securities that can be hard to sell, especially if 
market conditions are poor. Further, because our investment strategy can entail our having representation on 
public portfolio company boards, we may be restricted in our ability to effect sales during certain time periods. A 
lack of liquidity could limit our ability to vary our portfolio or assets promptly in response to changing economic or 
investment conditions. Additionally, if financial or operating difficulties of other owners result in distress sales, such 
sales could depress asset values in the markets in which we operate. The restrictions inherent in owning physical 
assets could reduce our ability to respond to changes in market conditions and could adversely affect the 
performance of our investments, our financial condition and results of operations.
Because there is significant uncertainty in the valuation of, or in the stability of the value of illiquid or non-public 
investments, the fair values of such investments do not necessarily reflect the prices that would actually be obtained 
when such investments are realized. Realizations at values significantly lower than the values at which investments 
have been recorded would result in losses, a decline in asset management fees and the potential loss of carried 
interest and incentive fees.
We enter into financing commitments in the normal course of business, which we may be required to fund. 
Additionally, from time to time, we may guarantee the obligations of entities managed by our Asset Management 
business or that we invest in. If we are required to fund these commitments and are unable to do so, this could 
result in damages being pursued against us or a loss of opportunity through default under contracts that are 
otherwise to our benefit.
g)     Foreign Exchange and Other Financial Exposures
Foreign exchange rate fluctuations could adversely impact our aggregate foreign currency exposure and hedging strategies 
may not be effective.
We have pursued and intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in international markets, and often invest 
in countries where the U.S. dollar is not the local currency. As a result, we are subject to foreign currency risk due to 
potential fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar. A significant depreciation in 
the value of the currency utilized in one or more countries where we have a significant presence may have a 
material adverse effect on the results of our operations and financial position. In addition, we are active in certain 
markets where economic growth is dependent on the price of commodities and the currencies in these markets can 
be more volatile as a result.
Our businesses are impacted by changes in currency rates, interest rates, commodity prices and other financial 
exposures. We may selectively utilize financial instruments to manage these exposures, including credit default 
swaps and other derivatives to hedge certain of our financial positions. However, a significant portion of these risks 
may remain unhedged. We may also choose to establish unhedged positions in the ordinary course of business.
There is no assurance that hedging strategies, to the extent they are used, will fully mitigate the risks they are 
intended to offset. Additionally, derivatives that we may use are also subject to their own unique set of risks, 
including counterparty risk with respect to the financial well-being of the party on the other side of these 
transactions and a potential requirement to fund mark-to-market adjustments. Our financial risk management 
policies may not ultimately be effective at managing these risks.
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and similar laws in other jurisdictions impose 
rules and regulations governing oversight of the over-the-counter derivatives market and its participants. These 
regulations may impose additional costs and regulatory scrutiny on us. If our derivative transactions are required to 
be executed through exchanges or regulated facilities, we will face incremental collateral requirements in the form 
of initial margin and require variation margin to be cash settled on a daily basis. Such an increase in margin 
116 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

requirements (relative to bilateral agreements) or a more restricted list of securities that qualify as eligible collateral, 
would require us to hold larger positions in cash and treasuries, which could reduce income. We cannot predict the 
effect of changing derivatives legislation on our hedging costs, our hedging strategy or its implementation, or the 
risks that we hedge. Regulation of derivatives may increase the cost of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of 
derivatives to protect against operational risk and reduce the liquidity of the derivatives market, all of which may 
reduce our use of derivatives and result in the increased volatility and decreased predictability of our cash flows.
h)     Temporary Investments and Backstop Commitments
We may be unable to syndicate, assign or transfer financial commitments entered into in support of our Asset 
Management business.
We periodically enter into agreements that commit us to acquire or stand in place of another entity to acquire 
assets or securities in order to support our Asset Management business with the expectation that our commitment 
is temporary. For example, we may acquire an asset suitable for a particular managed entity that is fundraising and 
warehouse that asset through the fundraising period before transferring the asset to the managed entity for which 
it was intended. As another example, we may commit capital for a particular acquisition transaction as part of a 
consortium alongside certain of managed entities with the expectation that we will syndicate or assign all or a 
portion of our own commitment to other investors prior to, at the same time as, or subsequent to, the anticipated 
closing of the transaction. In all of these cases, our support is intended to be of a temporary nature and we engage 
in this activity in order to further the growth and development of our Asset Management business. By leveraging 
the company’s financial position to make temporary investments and backstop commitments, we can execute on 
investment opportunities prior to obtaining all third-party equity financing that we seek, and these opportunities 
may otherwise not be available without the company’s initial equity participation.
While it is often our intention in these arrangements that the company’s direct participation be of a temporary 
nature, we may be unable to syndicate, assign or transfer our interest or commitment as we intended and therefore 
may be required to take or keep ownership of assets or securities for an extended period. This would increase the 
amount of our own capital deployed to certain assets and could have an adverse impact on our liquidity, which may 
alter our asset concentration outside of our desired parameters, may reduce our ability to pursue further 
acquisitions, or negatively impact our ability to meet other financial commitments.
i)      Interest Rates
Rising interest rates could increase our interest costs and adversely affect our financial performance.
A number of our long-life assets are interest rate sensitive. Increases in interest rates will, other things being equal, 
decrease the value of an asset by reducing the present value of the cash flows expected to be produced by such 
asset. As the present value of an income-producing asset may decline as a result of interest rate increases, certain 
financial and other covenants under credit agreements governing such asset could be breached, even if we have 
satisfied and continue to satisfy our payment obligations thereunder. Such a breach could result in negative 
consequences on our financial performance and results of operations.
Additionally, any of our debt or preferred shares that are subject to variable interest rates, either as an obligation 
with a variable interest rate or as an obligation with a fixed interest rate that resets into a variable interest rate in 
the future, are subject to interest rate risk. Further, the value of any debt or preferred share that is subject to a fixed 
interest rate will be determined based on the prevailing interest rates and, accordingly, this type of debt or 
preferred share is also subject to interest rate risk.
In many jurisdictions in which we operate, a period of sharply increasing interest rates may cause certain market 
dislocations that could negatively impact our financial performance, increase the cost and impact the availability of 
debt financing and thereby negatively impact the ability of our businesses to obtain attractive financing or 
refinancing and could increase the cost of such financing if obtained. Interest rate increases also increase the 
amount of cash required to service our obligations and our earnings could be adversely impacted as a result.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 117

j)      Human Capital
Ineffective maintenance of our culture or ineffective management of human capital could adversely impact our business 
and financial performance.
Our ability to compete effectively in our businesses will depend upon our ability to attract new employees and 
retain and motivate our existing employees, across our and our affiliates’ businesses. The senior management team 
across our businesses has a significant role in our success and oversees the execution of our business and 
investment strategies. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, this could limit our ability to 
compete successfully and achieve our business objectives, which could negatively impact our business, financial 
condition and results of operations.
Our ability to retain and motivate our management team, attract suitable replacements should any members of our 
management team leave, or attract new investment professionals as our business grows, is dependent on, among 
other things, the competitive nature of the employment market and the career opportunities and compensation 
that we can offer. In all of our markets, we face intense competition in connection with the attraction and retention 
of qualified employees. 
We may experience departures of key professionals in the future. We cannot predict the impact that any such 
departures will have on our ability to achieve our objectives. Our senior management team possesses substantial 
experience and expertise and has strong business relationships with investors in managed entities and other 
members of the business communities and industries in which we operate. As a result, the loss of these personnel 
could jeopardize our relationships with investors in managed entities and other members of the business 
communities and industries in which we operate and result in the reduction of our AUM or fewer investment 
opportunities. Accordingly, the loss of services from key professionals or a limitation in their availability could 
adversely impact our financial condition and cash flow. Furthermore, such a loss could be negatively perceived in 
the capital markets. 
Additionally, the departure of certain individuals could trigger certain “key person” provisions in the documentation 
governing certain of the private funds managed by our asset manager, which would permit the limited partners of 
those funds to suspend or terminate the funds’ investment periods or withdraw their capital prior to the expiration 
of the applicable lock-up date. Key person provisions vary by both strategy and fund and, with respect to each 
strategy and fund, are typically tied to multiple individuals, meaning that it would require the departure of more 
than one individual to trigger the key person provisions. Our human capital risks may be exacerbated by the fact 
that we do not maintain any key person insurance. 
The conduct of our businesses and the execution of our strategy rely heavily on the synergies across our businesses 
and teamwork. Our continued ability to respond promptly to opportunities and challenges as they arise depends on 
co-operation and co-ordination across our organization and our team-oriented management structure, which may 
not materialize in the way we expect.
A portion of the workforce in some of our businesses is unionized. If we are unable to negotiate acceptable 
collective bargaining agreements with any of our unions as existing agreements expire we could experience a work 
stoppage, which could result in a significant disruption to the affected operations, higher ongoing labor costs and 
restrictions on our ability to maximize the efficiency of our operations, all of which could have an adverse effect on 
our financial results.
k)     Geopolitical
Political instability, changes in government policy, or unfamiliar cultural factors could adversely impact the value of our 
investments.
We are subject to geopolitical uncertainties in all jurisdictions in which we operate. We make investments in 
businesses that are based outside of North America and we may pursue investments in unfamiliar markets, which 
may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in North America. We may not properly 
adjust to the local culture and business practices in such markets, and there is the prospect that we may hire 
personnel or partner with local persons who might not comply with our culture and ethical business practices; 
118 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

either scenario could result in the failure of our initiatives in new or existing markets and lead to financial losses for 
us and managed entities. There are risks of political instability and significant changes in laws and policies in several 
of our major markets and in other parts of the world in which we conduct business from factors such as political 
conflict, tariffs and other protectionist trade policies, including the encouragement of the onshoring of 
manufacturing in the U.S. and other countries, income inequality, refugee migration, terrorism, armed conflict, the 
potential break-up of countries or political-economic unions and political corruption; the materialization of one or 
more of these risks could negatively affect our financial performance.
Further, conflict in Eastern Europe has contributed to global economic uncertainty, resulted in volatility in fuel prices 
and heightened cybersecurity and cyber-terrorism disruptions and threats. Further economic and political instability 
and the commencement, escalation or expansion of armed conflict in Eastern Europe, the Middle East, or elsewhere 
in the world could significantly disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people, have a destabilizing effect 
on energy markets and result in potential higher costs of conducting business. Similarly, an inability of local and 
national governments to effectively manage ongoing political disputes could result in local, regional and/or global 
instability. The materialization of one or more of these risks could negatively affect our financial performance and 
adversely impact our business.
Any existing or new operations may be subject to significant political, economic and financial risks, which vary by 
country, and may include: (i) changes in government policies and regulations, including tariffs and other 
protectionist policies, or personnel; (ii) changes in general economic or social conditions; (iii) restrictions on currency 
transfer or convertibility; (iv) changes in labor relations; (v) military conflict, political instability and civil unrest; (vi) 
less developed or efficient financial markets than in North America; (vii) the absence of uniform accounting, auditing 
and financial reporting standards, practices and disclosure requirements; (viii) less government supervision and 
regulation; (ix) a less developed legal or regulatory environment; (x) heightened exposure to corruption risk; (xi) 
political hostility to investments by foreign investors; (xii) less publicly available information in respect of companies 
in non-North American markets; (xiii) adversely higher or lower rates of inflation; (xiv) higher transaction costs; (xv) 
difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations and expropriation or confiscation of assets; and (xvi) fewer investor 
protections.
Unforeseen political events in markets where we have significant investors and/or where we own and operate 
assets or may look to for further growth of our businesses, such as the North American, South American, Australian, 
European, Middle Eastern and Asian markets, may create economic uncertainty that has a negative impact on our 
financial performance. Such uncertainty could cause disruptions to our businesses, including affecting the business 
of and/or our relationships with investors, customers and suppliers, as well as altering the relationship among 
tariffs and currencies, including the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Disruptions and 
uncertainties could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In addition, political 
outcomes in the markets in which we operate may also result in legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national 
laws and regulations, which can contribute to general economic uncertainty. Economic uncertainty impacting us and 
managed entities could be exacerbated by supply chain disruptions, trade policy and geopolitical tensions.
l)      Economic Conditions
Unfavorable economic conditions or changes in the industries in which we operate could adversely impact our financial 
performance.
We are exposed to local, regional, national and international economic conditions and other events and occurrences 
beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the following: short-term and long-term interest rates; inflation; 
credit and capital market volatility; business investment levels; government spending levels; sovereign debt risks; 
consumer spending levels; changes in laws, rules or regulations; trade barriers; supply chain disruptions; 
commodity prices; currency exchange rates and controls; national and international political circumstances 
(including wars, terrorist acts or security operations); catastrophic events (including pandemics/epidemics, 
earthquakes, tornadoes or floods); the rate and direction of economic growth; and general economic uncertainty. 
On a global basis, certain industries and sectors have created capacity that anticipated higher growth, which has 
caused volatility across all markets, including commodity markets, which may have a negative impact on our 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 119

financial performance. Unfavorable economic conditions could affect the jurisdictions in which our entities are 
formed and where we own assets and operate businesses, and may cause a reduction in: (i) securities prices; (ii) the 
liquidity of investments; (iii) the value or performance of the investments; and (iv) the ability to raise or deploy 
capital, each of which could adversely impact our financial condition.
In general, a decline in economic conditions, either in the markets or industries in which we participate, or both, will 
result in downward pressure on our operating margins and asset values as a result of lower demand and increased 
price competition for the services and products that we provide. In particular, given the importance of the U.S. to 
our operations, an economic downturn in this market could have a significant adverse effect on our operating 
margins and asset values.
Many of the private funds of our asset manager have a finite life that may require an investment exit to be made at 
an inopportune time. Volatility in the exit markets for these investments, increasing levels of capital required to 
finance companies to exit and rising enterprise value thresholds to go public or complete a strategic sale can all 
contribute to the risk that a private fund investment cannot be exited successfully. Our asset manager cannot 
always control the timing of private fund investment exits or realizations upon exit.
If global economic conditions deteriorate, our investment performance could suffer, resulting in, for example, the 
payment of less or no carried interest to us. The payment of less or no carried interest to us could cause our cash 
flow from operations to decrease, which could materially adversely affect our liquidity position and the amount of 
cash we have on hand to conduct our operations. A reduction in our cash flow from operations could, in turn, 
require us to rely on other sources of cash such as the capital markets, which may not be available to us on 
acceptable terms, or debt and other forms of leverage.
In addition, in an economic downturn, there is an increased risk of default by counterparties to our investments and 
other transactions. In these circumstances, it is more likely that such transactions will fail or perform poorly, which 
may in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition.
Inflationary pressures could adversely impact our businesses.
Our operating businesses are impacted by inflationary pressures. While inflation has eased and central banks began 
reducing interest rates in the second half of 2024, past price increases continue to affect householders and weigh 
on confidence and spending power. The potential for increased tariffs and trade barriers, as well as increased 
geopolitical risks, adds uncertainty to the long-term outlook for inflation and interest rates and a reacceleration of 
inflation could trigger a reversal in recent interest rate decreases. Interest rate increases or other government 
actions taken to reduce inflation could also result in recessionary pressures in many parts of the world. Interest rate 
risk poses a significant market risk to us as a result of interest rate-sensitive assets and liabilities held by us and our 
operating businesses. Higher interest rates or elevated interest rates for a sustained period could also result in an 
economic slowdown. Economic contraction or further deceleration in the rate of growth in certain industries, 
sectors or geographies may contribute to poor financial results at our operating businesses. While regulated and 
contractual arrangements in our portfolio companies can provide significant protection against inflationary 
pressures, any sustained upward trajectory in the inflation rate may still have an impact on our operating 
businesses and our investors, and could impact our ability to source suitable investment opportunities, match or 
exceed prior investment strategy performance and secure attractive debt financing, all of which could adversely 
impact our operating businesses and our growth and capital recycling initiatives.
m)   Catastrophic Event/Loss, Pandemics, Climate Change, War and Terrorism
Catastrophic events (or combination of events), such as earthquakes, tornadoes, floods, fires, pandemics/epidemics, 
climate change, military conflict/war or terrorism/sabotage, could adversely impact our financial performance.
Our AUM could be exposed to effects of catastrophic events, such as severe weather conditions, natural disasters, 
major accidents, pandemics/epidemics, acts of malicious destruction, climate change, war/military conflict or 
terrorism, which could materially adversely impact our operations.
A local, regional, national or international outbreak of a contagious disease such as COVID-19, which spreads across 
the globe at a rapid pace impacting global commercial activity and travel, or future public health crises, epidemics or 
120 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

pandemics, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition due to 
disruptions to commerce, reduced economic activity and other unforeseen consequences that are beyond our 
control. 
The emergence and progression of a contagious disease and the actions taken in response by government 
authorities across various geographies in which the company owns and operates investments could interrupt 
business activities and supply chains, disrupt travel, contribute to significant volatility in the financial markets, 
impact social conditions and adversely affected local, regional, national and international economic conditions as 
well as the labor market. There can be no assurance that strategies that we employ to address potential disruptions 
in operations would mitigate the adverse impacts of any of these factors.
Natural disasters and ongoing changes to the physical climate in which we operate may have an adverse impact on 
our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Changes in weather patterns or extreme 
weather (such as floods, wildfires, droughts, hurricanes and other storms) may negatively affect our businesses’ 
operations or damage assets that we may own or develop. Further, rising sea levels could, in the future, affect the 
value of any low-lying coastal real assets that we may own or develop. Climate change may increase the frequency 
and severity of severe weather conditions and may change existing weather patterns in ways that are difficult to 
anticipate. Responses to these changes could result in higher costs, such as the imposition of new property taxes, 
increases in insurance rates or additional capital expenditures.
Our commercial office portfolio is concentrated in large metropolitan areas, some of which have been or may be 
perceived to be threatened by terrorist attacks or acts of war. Furthermore, many of our properties consist of high-
rise buildings that may also be subject to this actual or perceived threat. The perceived threat of a terrorist attack or 
outbreak of war could negatively impact our ability to lease office space in our real estate portfolio. Renewable 
power and infrastructure assets such as roads, railways, power generation facilities and ports, may also be targeted 
by terrorist organizations or in acts of war. Any damage or business interruption costs as a result of uninsured or 
underinsured acts of terrorism or war could result in a material cost to us and could adversely affect our business, 
financial condition or results of operation. Adequate terrorism insurance may not be available at rates we believe to 
be reasonable in the future. These risks could be heightened by foreign policy decisions of the U.S. (where we have 
significant operations) and other influential countries or general geopolitical conditions.
Additionally, our businesses rely on free movement of goods, services, and capital from around the globe. Any 
slowdown in international investment, business or trade as a result of catastrophic events could also have a 
material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
n)     Tax
Reassessments by tax authorities or changes in tax laws could create additional tax costs for us. 
Our structure is based on prevailing taxation law and practice in the local jurisdictions in which we operate. Any 
change in tax policy, tax legislation (including in relation to taxation rates), the interpretation of tax policy or 
legislation or practice in these jurisdictions could adversely affect the return we earn on our investments, the level 
of capital available to be invested by us or managed entities and the willingness of investors to invest in them. This 
risk would include any reassessments by tax authorities on our tax returns if we were to incorrectly interpret or 
apply any tax policy, legislation or practice.
Taxes and other constraints that would apply to our operating entities in such jurisdictions may not apply to local 
institutions or other parties such as state-owned enterprises, and such parties may therefore have a significantly 
lower effective cost of capital and a corresponding competitive advantage in pursuing acquisitions. There are a 
number of factors that could increase our effective tax rates, which would have a negative impact on our net 
income, including, but not limited to, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any 
reassessment of taxes by a taxation authority.
Governments around the world increasingly seek to regulate multinational companies and their use of differential 
tax rates between jurisdictions. This effort includes a greater emphasis by various nations on coordinating and 
sharing information regarding companies and the taxes they pay. A number of countries across the globe have also 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 121

agreed to implement a “two pillar” plan for global tax reform, developed by the OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework on 
BEPS, to address perceived base erosion and profit shifting (“BEPS”) by multinational groups. Governmental taxation 
reforms, policies and practices could adversely affect us and, depending on the nature of such reforms, policies and 
practices, including the implementation of the BEPS proposals in the jurisdictions in which we operate could have a 
greater impact on us than on other companies. As a result of this increased focus on the use of tax planning by 
multinational companies, our tax planning could be subject to negative media coverage, which may adversely 
impact our reputation.
o)     Financial Reporting and Disclosures
Deficiencies in our public company financial reporting and disclosures could adversely impact our reputation.
As we expand the size and scope of our business, there is a greater susceptibility that our financial reporting and 
other public disclosure documents may contain material misstatements and that the controls we maintain to 
attempt to ensure the complete accuracy of our public disclosures may fail to operate as intended. The occurrence 
of such events could adversely impact our reputation and financial condition. In addition, we disclose certain 
metrics that do not have standardized meaning, are based on our own methodologies and assumptions and may 
not properly convey the information they purport to reflect.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting to 
give our stakeholders assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial 
statements for external purposes in accordance with IFRS Accounting Standards. However, the process for 
establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting has inherent limitations, including 
the possibility of human error. In addition, we may exclude recently acquired companies from our evaluation of 
internal controls. Our internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements in our 
financial disclosures on a timely basis, or at all. Some of these processes may be new for certain subsidiaries in our 
structure and in the case of acquisitions may take time to be fully implemented.
Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide assurance that information required to be 
disclosed by us in reports filed or submitted under Canadian and U.S. securities laws is recorded, processed, 
summarized and reported within the time periods specified. Our policies and procedures governing disclosures may 
not ensure that all material information regarding us is disclosed in a proper and timely fashion, or that we will be 
successful in preventing the disclosure of material information to a single person or a limited group of people 
before such information is generally disseminated.
p)     Sustainability
Ineffective management of environmental and sustainability issues, including climate change, and inadequate or 
ineffective health and safety programs could damage our reputation, adversely impact our financial performance and lead 
to regulatory action.
There is increasing stakeholder interest in sustainability considerations and how they are managed. Sustainability 
considerations include climate change, human capital and labor management, corporate governance, diversity and 
privacy and data security, among others. Increasingly, investors and lenders are incorporating sustainability 
considerations into their investment or lending process, respectively, alongside traditional financial considerations. 
Investors or potential investors in managed entities or in Brookfield may not invest in all products given certain 
industries in which we operate. If we are unable to successfully integrate sustainability considerations into our 
practices, we may incur a higher cost of capital, lower interest in our debt securities and/or equity securities or 
otherwise face a negative impact on our business, operating results and cash flows and result in reputational 
damage.
Certain of our subsidiaries and affiliates may be subject to compliance with laws, regulations, regulatory rules and/
or guidance relating to sustainability, and any failure to comply with these laws, regulations, regulatory rules or 
guidance could expose us to material adverse consequences, including loss, limitations on our ability to undertake 
licensable business, legal liabilities, financial and non-financial sanctions and penalties, and/or reputational damage. 
Sustainability requirements imposed by jurisdictions in which we do business, such as the E.U. Sustainable Finance 
122 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

Disclosure Regulation (2019/2088), could (a) result in additional compliance costs, disclosure obligations or other 
implications or restrictions; and/or (b) impact our established business practices, cost base and, by extension, our 
profitability. Sustainability-related requirements and market practices differ by region, industry and issue and are 
evolving dynamically, and the sustainability requirements applicable to us, our investments, or our assessment of 
such requirements or practices may change over time. Under emerging sustainability requirements, we may be 
required to classify our businesses against, or determine the alignment of underlying investments under, 
sustainability-related legislative and regulatory criteria and taxonomies, some of which can be open to subjective 
interpretation. Our view on the appropriate classifications may develop over time, including in response to statutory 
or regulatory guidance or changes in industry approach to classification. A change to the relevant classification may 
require further actions to be taken, for example it may require further disclosures, or it may require new processes 
to be set up to capture data, which may lead to additional cost, disclosure obligations or other implications or 
restrictions.
The transition to a lower-carbon economy has the potential to be disruptive to traditional business models and 
investment strategies. Efforts to limit global warming may give rise to changes in regulations, reporting and 
consumer sentiment that could have a negative impact on our existing operations by increasing the costs of 
operating our business or reducing demand for our products and services. The adverse effects of climate change 
and related regulation at state, provincial, federal or international levels could have a material adverse effect on our 
business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
The ownership and operation of some of the assets held in our portfolio companies carry varying degrees of 
inherent risk or liability related to worker health and safety and the environment, including the risk of government-
imposed orders to remedy unsafe conditions and contaminated lands and potential civil liability. Compliance with 
health, safety and environmental standards and the requirements set out in the relevant licenses, permits and other 
approvals obtained by the portfolio companies is crucial.
Our portfolio companies have incurred and will continue to incur significant capital and operating expenditures to 
comply with sustainability requirements, including health and safety standards, to obtain and comply with licenses, 
permits and other approvals, and to assess and manage potential liability exposure. Nevertheless, they may be 
unsuccessful in obtaining or maintaining an important license, permit or other approval or become subject to 
government orders, investigations, inquiries or other proceedings (including civil claims) relating to health, safety 
and environmental matters, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us.
Health, safety and environmental laws and regulations can change rapidly and significantly, and we and/or our 
portfolio companies may become subject to more stringent laws and regulations in the future. The occurrence of 
any adverse health, safety or environmental event, or any changes, additions to, or more rigorous enforcement of, 
health, safety and environmental standards, licenses, permits or other approvals could have a significant impact on 
operations and/or result in material expenditures.
Owners and operators of real assets may become liable for the costs of removal and remediation of certain 
hazardous substances released or deposited on or in their properties, or at other locations regardless of whether 
the owner and operator caused the release or deposit of such hazardous materials. These costs could be significant 
and could reduce cash available for our businesses. The failure to remove or remediate such substances, if any, 
could adversely affect our ability to sell our assets or to borrow using these assets as collateral, and could 
potentially result in claims or other proceedings.
Certain of our businesses are involved in using, handling or transporting substances that are toxic, combustible or 
otherwise hazardous to the environment and may be in close proximity to environmentally sensitive areas or 
densely populated communities. If a leak, spill or other environmental incident occurred, it could result in 
substantial fines or penalties being imposed by regulatory authorities, revocation of licenses or permits required to 
operate the business, the imposition of more stringent conditions in those licenses or permits or legal claims for 
compensation (including punitive damages) by affected stakeholders.
Global sustainability challenges, such as greenhouse gas emissions, privacy and data security, demographic shifts 
and regulatory pressures are introducing new risk factors for us that we may not have dealt with previously. We are 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 123

also engaged with various sustainability frameworks and organizations through which we have stated certain 
ambitions and commitments regarding sustainability best practices. If we are unable to successfully manage our 
sustainability compliance or commitments, this could have a negative impact on our reputation and our ability to 
raise future public and private capital and could be detrimental to our economic value and the value of managed 
entities.
q)     Dependence on Information Technology Systems and Data Security, Privacy, and Cyber-Terrorism 
We rely on the use of technology and information systems, many of which are controlled by third-party service providers, 
which may not be able to accommodate our growth or may increase in cost and may become subject to cyber-terrorism or 
other compromises and shut-downs, and any failures or interruptions of these systems could adversely affect our 
businesses and results of operations. 
We operate in businesses that are dependent on information systems and other technology, such as computer 
systems used for information storage, processing, administrative and commercial functions as well as the 
machinery and other equipment used in certain parts of our operations. In addition, our businesses rely on 
telecommunication services to interface with their business networks and customers. The information and 
embedded systems of key business partners and regulatory agencies are also important to our operations. We rely 
on this technology functioning as intended. Our information systems and technology may not continue to be able to 
accommodate our growth, and the cost of maintaining such systems may increase from its current level. Such a 
failure to accommodate growth, or an increase in costs related to such information systems, could have a material 
adverse effect on us.
We rely heavily on certain financial, accounting, communications and other data processing systems. We collect, 
store and use large amounts of sensitive information, including personally identifiable information, through our 
information technology systems. Our information technology systems face ongoing cybersecurity and cyber-
terrorism threats and attacks, which could result in the failure of such infrastructure. We may in the future be 
subject to cyber-terrorism or other cybersecurity risks or other breaches of information technology security, noting 
the increasing frequency, sophistication and severity of these kinds of incidents. In particular, our information 
technology systems may be subject to cyber terrorism intended to obtain unauthorized access to our proprietary 
information, personally identifiable information or to client or third-party data stored on our systems, destroy or 
disable our data and/or that of our business partners, disclose confidential data in breach of data privacy legislation, 
destroy data or disable, degrade or sabotage our systems, through the introduction of computer viruses, cyber-
attacks and other means. Such attacks could originate from a wide variety of sources, including internal actors or 
unknown third parties. Further, unauthorized parties may also gain physical access to our facilities and infiltrate our 
information systems or attempt to gain access to information and data. The sophistication of the threats continues 
to evolve and grow, including the risk associated with the use of emerging technologies, such as artificial intelligence 
and quantum computing, for nefarious purposes. We cannot predict what effects such cyber-attacks or 
compromises or shut-downs may have on our business and on the privacy of the individuals or entities affected, 
and the consequences could be material. Cyber incidents may remain undetected for an extended period, which 
could exacerbate these consequences. The costs to eliminate or address the foregoing security threats and 
vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be material. A significant actual or potential theft, loss, 
corruption, exposure, fraudulent, unauthorized or accidental use or misuse of investor, policyholder, employee or 
other personally identifiable or proprietary business data, whether by third parties or as a result of employee 
malfeasance or otherwise, non-compliance with our contractual or other legal obligations regarding such data or 
intellectual property or a violation of our privacy and security policies with respect to such data could result in 
significant remediation and other costs, fines, litigation and regulatory actions against us by governments, various 
regulatory organizations or exchanges, or affected individuals, in addition to significant reputational harm and/or 
financial loss, and it may not be possible to recover losses suffered from such incidents under our insurance 
policies.
In addition, our operating equipment may not continue to perform as it has in the past, and there is a risk of 
equipment failure due to wear and tear, latent defect, design or operator errors or early obsolescence, among other 
things.
124 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

A breach of our cyber security measures or the failure or malfunction of any of our computerized business systems, 
associated backup or data storage systems could cause us to suffer a disruption in one or more parts of our 
business and experience, among other things, financial loss, reputational damage, a loss of business opportunities, 
misappropriation or unauthorized release of confidential or personal information, damage to our systems and 
those with whom we do business, violation of privacy and other laws, litigation, regulatory penalties and 
remediation and restoration costs as well as increased costs to maintain our systems.
We are reliant on third party service providers for certain aspects of our business, including for the administration 
of certain funds we manage, as well as for certain information systems and technology platforms, trustee services, 
legal services, technology, administration, tax, accounting and compliance matters. A disaster, disruption or 
compromise in technology or infrastructure that supports our businesses, including a disruption involving electronic 
communications or other services used by us, our vendors or third parties with whom we conduct business, may 
have an adverse impact on our ability to continue to operate our businesses without interruption which could have 
a material adverse effect on us. These risks could increase as vendors increasingly offer cloud-based software 
services rather than software services that can be operated within our own data centers. These risks also increase 
to the extent we engage with vendors and third-party services providers in jurisdictions with which we are not 
familiar. In addition to the fact that these third-party service providers could also face ongoing cyber security threats 
and compromises of their systems, we generally have less control over the delivery of such third-party services, and 
as a result, we may face disruptions to our ability to operate a business as a result of interruptions of such services. 
A prolonged global failure of cloud services provided by a variety of cloud services providers that we engage could 
result in cascading systems failures for us. Although we are continuing to develop measures to ensure the integrity 
of our systems, we can provide no assurance that our efforts or those of third-party service providers will be 
successful in protecting our systems and preventing or ameliorating damage from a cyber incident. Data protection 
and privacy rules have become a focus for regulators globally. For instance, the European General Data Protection 
Regulation (“GDPR”) sets out data protection rules for individuals that are residents of the E.U. GDPR imposes 
stringent rules and penalties for non- compliance. Other countries where we operate are enacting or amending data 
protection, artificial intelligence and other technology laws to empower regulators to impose financial penalties and 
injunctions on certain data processing activities, which could have an adverse effect on our business.
r)     Litigation
We and our affiliates may become involved in legal disputes in Canada, the U.S. and internationally that could adversely 
impact our financial performance and reputation.
In the normal course of our operations, we become involved in various legal actions, including claims relating to 
personal injury, property damage, property taxes, land rights and contract and other commercial disputes. The 
investment decisions we make in our Asset Management business and the activities of our investment professionals 
on behalf of portfolio companies and managed entities may subject us, managed entities and our portfolio 
companies to the risk of third-party litigation. Further, we have significant operations in the U.S. which may, as a 
result of the prevalence of litigation in the U.S., be more susceptible to legal action than certain of our other 
competitors.
Management of our litigation matters is generally handled by legal counsel in the business unit most directly 
impacted by the litigation, and not by a centralized legal department. As a result, the management of litigation that 
we face may not always be appropriate or effective.
The final outcome with respect to outstanding, pending or future litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, and 
the resolution of such actions may have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of our operations in a 
particular quarter or fiscal year. Any litigation may consume substantial amounts of our management’s time and 
attention, and that time and the devotion of these resources to litigation may, at times, be disproportionate to the 
amounts at stake in the litigation. Even if ultimately unsuccessful against us, any litigation has the potential to 
adversely affect our business, including by damaging our reputation.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 125

s)      Insurance
Losses not covered by insurance may be large, which could adversely impact our financial performance.
We carry various insurance policies in relation to our assets and business activities. These policies contain policy 
specifications, limits and deductibles that may mean that such policies do not provide coverage or sufficient 
coverage against all potential material losses. We may also self-insure a portion of certain of these risks, and 
therefore the company may not be able to recover from a third-party insurer in the event that the company, if it had 
asset insurance coverage from a third party, could make a claim for recovery. There are certain types of risk 
(generally of a catastrophic nature such as war or environmental contamination) that are either uninsurable or not 
economically insurable. Further, there are certain types of risk for which insurance coverage is not equal to the full 
replacement cost of the insured assets. Should any uninsured or underinsured loss occur, we could lose our 
investment in, and anticipated profits and cash flows from, one or more of our assets or operations.
We also carry directors’ and officers’ liability insurance (“D&O insurance”) for losses or advancement of defense 
costs in the event a legal action is brought against the company’s directors, officers or employees for alleged 
wrongful acts in their capacity as directors, officers or employees. Our D&O insurance contains certain customary 
exclusions that may make it unavailable for the company in the event it is needed; and in any case our D&O 
insurance may not be adequate to fully protect the company against liability for the conduct of its directors, officers 
or employees. We may also self-insure a portion of our D&O insurance, and therefore the company may not be able 
to recover from a third-party insurer in the event that the company, if it had D&O insurance from a third-party 
insurer, could make a claim for recovery.
For economic efficiency and other reasons, the company and its affiliates may enter into insurance policies as a 
group that are intended to provide coverage for the entire group. Where group policies are in place, any payments 
under such policy could have a negative impact on other entities covered under the policy as they may not be able 
to access adequate insurance in the event it is needed. While management attempts to design coverage limits 
under group policies to ensure that all entities covered under a policy have access to sufficient insurance coverage, 
there are no guarantees that these efforts will be effective in obtaining this result.
t)     Credit and Counterparty Risk
Inability to collect amounts owing to us could adversely impact financial performance.
Third parties may not fulfill their payment obligations to us, which could include money, securities or other assets, 
thereby impacting our operations and financial results. These parties include deal and trading counterparties, 
governmental agencies, portfolio company customers and financial intermediaries. Third parties may default on 
their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure, general economic conditions or other 
reasons.
We have business lines that loan money to distressed companies, either privately or via an investment in publicly 
traded debt securities. As a result, we actively take heightened credit risk in other entities from time to time and 
whether we realize satisfactory investment returns on these loans is uncertain and may be beyond our control. If 
some of these debt investments fail, our financial performance could be negatively impacted.
Investors in private funds make capital commitments to these vehicles through the execution of subscription 
agreements. When a private fund makes an investment, these capital commitments are then satisfied by such 
investors via capital contributions. These investors may default on their capital commitment obligations, which 
could have an adverse impact on our Asset Management business and in turn our earnings or result in other 
negative implications to our businesses such as the requirement to redeploy our own capital to cover such 
obligations. This impact would be magnified if the investor that does so is in multiple funds.
126 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

u)     Information Barriers
Information barriers may give rise to certain conflicts and risks and investment teams managing the activities of businesses 
that operate on opposite sides of an information barrier will not be aware of, and will not have the ability to manage, such 
conflicts and risks.
Certain businesses within our asset management operations operate largely independently of one another 
pursuant to an information barrier. The information barrier restricts businesses on opposite sides from 
coordinating or consulting with one another with respect to investment activities and/or decisions. Accordingly, 
these businesses manage their investment operations independently of each other. The investment activities and 
decisions made by a business on one side of an information barrier are not expected to be subject to any internal 
approvals by any person who would have knowledge and/or decision-making control of the investment activities 
and decisions made by a business on the other side of the information barrier. This absence of coordination and 
consultation will give rise to certain conflicts and risks in connection with the activities of the businesses within our 
asset management operations and their portfolio companies, and make it more difficult to mitigate, ameliorate or 
avoid such situations. These conflicts (and potential conflicts) of interests may include: (i) competing from time to 
time for the same investment opportunities, (ii) the pursuit by a business on one side of the information barrier of 
investment opportunities suitable for a business on the other side of the information barrier, without making such 
opportunities available to such business, and (iii) the formation or establishment of new strategies or products that 
could compete or otherwise conduct their affairs without regard as to whether or not they adversely impact the 
strategies or products of our businesses operating on the other side of the information barrier. Investment teams 
managing the activities of businesses that operate on opposite sides of an information barrier are not expected to 
be aware of, and will not have the need or ability to manage, such conflicts which may impact the investment 
strategy, performance and investment returns of certain businesses within our asset management operations and 
their portfolio companies. 
The asset management businesses that operate on opposite sides of an information barrier are likely to be deemed 
affiliates for purposes of certain laws and regulations notwithstanding that such businesses may be operationally 
independent from one another. The information barrier does not eliminate the requirement that such businesses 
aggregate certain investment holdings for certain securities laws and other regulatory purposes. This may result in, 
among other things, earlier public disclosure of investments; restrictions on transactions (including the ability to 
make or dispose of certain investments at certain times); potential short-swing profit disgorgement; penalties and/
or regulatory remedies; or adverse effects on the prices of investments for our Asset Management businesses that 
operate on the other side of such information barrier. 
Although these information barriers were implemented to address the potential conflicts of interests and 
regulatory, legal and contractual requirements applicable to our Asset Management business, we may decide, at 
any time and without notice to our company or our shareholders, to remove or modify the information barriers 
within our Asset Management  business. In addition, there may be breaches (including inadvertent breaches) of the 
information barriers and related internal controls. In the event that the information barrier is removed or modified, 
it would be expected that we will adopt certain protocols designed to address potential conflicts and other 
considerations relating to the management of the investment activities of those businesses that previously 
operated on opposite sides of an information barrier. 
The breach or failure of such information barriers could result in the sharing of material non-public information 
between businesses that operate on opposite sides of an information barrier, which may restrict the acquisition or 
disposition activities of one of our businesses and ultimately impact the returns generated for our investors. In 
addition, any such breach or failure could also result in potential regulatory investigations and claims for securities 
laws violations in connection with our direct and/or indirect investment activities. Any inadvertent trading on 
material non-public information, or perception of trading on material non-public information by one of our 
businesses or our personnel, could have a significant adverse effect on our reputation, result in the imposition of 
regulatory or financial sanctions and negatively impact our ability to raise third-party capital and provide investment 
management services to clients, all of which could result in negative financial impact to our investment activities.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 127

v)  Wealth Solutions
We face risks specific to BWS and its insurance activities.
BWS is focused on securing the financial futures of individuals and institutions through a range of retirement 
services, wealth protection products, and tailored capital solutions. Through its operating subsidiaries, BWS offers a 
broad range of insurance products and services, including annuities, personal and commercial property and 
casualty insurance, and life insurance.
BWS exchangeable shares are intended to provide holders with an economic return equivalent to our Class A 
shares. Each BWS exchangeable share is exchangeable on a one-for-one basis at the option of the holder for our 
Class A shares or its cash equivalent (the form of payment to be determined at the election of the company). 
Distributions on BWS exchangeable shares are expected to be paid at the same time and in the same amount as 
dividends are paid on our Class A shares. 
While BWS and its operating businesses will generally be required to satisfy their own working capital requirements 
and service and debt obligations, we have entered into a support agreement to support the economic equivalence 
between our Class A shares and BWS exchangeable shares, pursuant to which we have agreed to, among other 
things, take all actions reasonably necessary to enable BWS to pay quarterly distributions and the liquidation 
amount or amount payable on a redemption of BWS exchangeable shares. We have also entered into an equity 
commitment agreement and credit  agreement for the purposes of providing BWS with access to debt financing on 
an as-needed basis to fund the growth of and maximize flexibility for BWS. 
Further, we or BWS may issue additional shares in the future in the public markets, including to fund future growth 
of BWS or in lieu of incurring indebtedness, which could depress the market price or dilute the percentage interest 
of existing holders of our Class A shares and BWS exchangeable shares in aggregate, and impair the ability for us or 
BWS to raise capital through the sale of additional exchangeable shares. Additionally, the effect of any future sales 
or issuances of any BWS exchangeable shares issued by BWS or any future sales or issuances of our Class A shares 
(which would in turn, impact the BWS exchangeable shares cannot be predicted. 
BWS’ business is presently conducted under four operating segments, which it refers to as Annuities, Property and 
Casualty (“P&C”), Life Insurance, and Corporate and Other segments. While BWS plans to continue developing its 
insurance and wealth solutions offerings, there is no guarantee that it will be successful in doing so. A key part of 
BWS’ growth strategy will involve writing new insurance policies, executing new pension risk transfer (“PRT”) 
arrangements and reinsurance contracts and may also include the acquisition of, or material investments in, 
existing reinsurance and insurance platforms. Such initiatives, if successful, would significantly increase the scale, 
scope and diversity of BWS. While BWS has reviewed and has successfully executed transactions in the past to 
facilitate its growth, the insurance industry is highly competitive, and BWS may not be successful in executing on 
future opportunities. 
The success of BWS’ business is dependent on writing, operating, and servicing annuities, personal and commercial 
property and casualty insurance, and life insurance and other corporate segments in relation to corporate functions 
for its core insurance operations. Any problems or discrepancies that arise in its pricing, underwriting, billing, 
processing, claims handling or other practices, whether as a result of incorrect assumptions, employee error, 
vendor error, or other technological issues (including cybersecurity risks), could have a negative effect on the 
reputation, business, financial condition and and results of operations of BWS.
BWS makes and relies on certain assumptions and estimates in order to make decisions regarding pricing, target 
returns, reserve levels and other factors affecting its business operations. Its underwriting results depend upon the 
extent to which actual claims experience and benefit payments under its reinsurance contracts are consistent with 
the assumptions used in setting prices and establishing liabilities for such contracts. Such amounts are established 
based on actuarial estimates of how much BWS will need to pay for future benefits and claims based on data and 
models that include many assumptions and projections, which are inherently uncertain and involve significant 
judgment, including assumptions as to the levels and/or timing of receipt or payment of premiums, benefits, claims, 
expenses, interest credits and investment results (including equity and other market returns). If the assumptions 
and estimates of BWS differ significantly from the actual outcomes and results, its business, financial condition, 
128 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

results of operations, liquidity and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected, which in turn may 
negatively impact the value of our interest in the business.
w)     Renewable Power and Transition
We face risks specific to our renewable power and transition activities.
Our renewable power and transition operations are subject to changes in the weather, hydrology and price, but also 
include risks related to equipment or dam failure, counterparty performance, water rental costs, land rental costs, 
changes in regulatory requirements and other material disruptions.
The revenues generated by our power facilities are correlated to the amount of electricity generated, which in turn 
is dependent upon available water flows, wind, irradiance and other elements beyond our control. Hydrology, wind 
and irradiance levels vary naturally from year to year and may also change permanently because of climate change 
or other factors. It is therefore possible that low water, wind and irradiance levels at certain of our power generating 
operations could occur at any time and potentially continue for indefinite periods. In addition, extreme weather 
conditions could impact our access to the various transmission systems required to deliver power.
A portion of our renewable power and transition revenue is tied, either directly or indirectly, to the wholesale 
market price for electricity, which is impacted by a number of external factors beyond our control. Additionally, a 
portion of the power we generate is sold under long-term power purchase agreements, shorter-term financial 
instruments and physical electricity contracts which are intended to mitigate the impact of fluctuations in wholesale 
electricity prices; however, they may not be effective in achieving this outcome. Certain of our power purchase 
agreements will be subject to re-contracting in the future. If the price of electricity in power markets is declining at 
the time of such re-contracting, it may impact our ability to re-negotiate or replace these contracts on terms that are 
acceptable to us. Conversely, what appears to be an attractive price at the time of recontracting could, if power 
prices rise over the power purchase agreement’s term, result in us having committed to sell power in the future at 
below market rate. If we are unable to re-negotiate or replace these contracts, or unable to secure prices at least 
equal to the current prices we receive, our business, financial condition, results of operation and prospects could be 
adversely affected.
In our renewable power and transition operations, there is a risk of equipment failure due to severe weather 
conditions (including as a result of climate change), wear and tear, latent defect, design error or operator error, 
among other things. The occurrence of such failures could result in a loss of generating capacity and repairing such 
failures could require the expenditure of significant capital and other resources. Failures could also result in 
exposure to significant liability for damages due to harm to the environment, to the public generally or to specific 
third parties. Equipment that our renewable power and transition operations need, including spare parts and 
components required for project development, may become unavailable or difficult to procure, inhibiting our ability 
to maintain full availability of existing plants and also our ability to complete development projects on scope, 
schedule and budget.
In certain cases, some catastrophic events may not excuse us from performing our obligations pursuant to 
agreements with third parties and we may be liable for damages or suffer further losses as a result.
We are exposed to performance and operational risks in respect of certain nuclear technologies. The nuclear fuel 
and power industries are heavily regulated and could be significantly impacted by changes in government policies 
and priorities such as increased regulation and/or more onerous operating requirements that negatively impact our 
nuclear technology services. A future accident at a nuclear reactor could result in the shutdown of existing plants or 
impact the continued acceptance by the public and regulatory authorities of nuclear energy and the future 
prospects for nuclear generators. Accidents, terrorism, natural disasters or other incidents occurring at nuclear 
facilities or involving shipments of nuclear materials could reduce the demand for nuclear technology services.
Our ability to develop greenfield renewable power projects in our development pipeline may be affected by a 
number of factors, including the state of capital markets, the ability to secure project financing (including from tax 
equity investors and through tax and other government incentives) the ability to secure approvals, licenses and 
permits and the ability to secure a long-term power purchase agreement or other sales contracts on reasonable 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 129

terms. The development of our pipeline of greenfield renewable power projects is also subject to environmental, 
engineering and construction risks that could result in cost-overruns, delays and reduced performance. 
New regulatory initiatives related to sustainability could adversely impact our business. While we believe that 
regulatory initiatives and market trends towards an increased focus on sustainability are generally beneficial to our 
renewable power and transition group, any such regulatory initiatives also have the potential to adversely impact 
us. For example, regulatory initiatives seeking to reorient investment toward sustainability by regulating green 
financial products could have the effect of increasing burdensome disclosure requirements around sustainability 
and prescribing approaches to sustainability policies that are inconsistent with our current practices. If regulators 
disagree with the sustainability disclosures that we make, or with the categorization of our financial products, we 
may face regulatory enforcement action, and our business or reputation could be adversely affected.
x)     Infrastructure
We face risks specific to our infrastructure activities.
Our infrastructure operations include utilities, transport, midstream, and data operations. Our infrastructure assets 
include toll roads, telecommunication towers, electricity transmission systems, terminal operations, electricity and 
gas distribution companies, residential infrastructure, rail networks, ports and data centers. The principal risks 
facing the regulated and unregulated businesses comprising our infrastructure operations relate to government 
regulation, general economic conditions and other material disruptions, counterparty performance and capital 
expenditure requirements.
Many of our infrastructure operations are subject to government regulation, including with respect to revenues and 
environmental sustainability. If any of the respective regulators in the jurisdictions in which we operate decides to 
change the tolls or rates we are allowed to charge, or the amounts of the provisions we are allowed to collect, we 
may not be able to earn the rate of return on our investments that we had planned, or we may not be able to 
recover our initial cost.
With environmental regulation becoming more stringent, our investments may become subject to increasing 
environmental responsibility and liability. These regulations may result in increased costs to our operations that 
may not be able to be passed onto our customers and may have an adverse impact on prospects for growth of 
some businesses.
General economic conditions (including those resulting from climate change and severe weather conditions) affect 
international demand for the commodities handled and services provided by our infrastructure operations. A 
downturn in the economy generally or specific to any of our infrastructure businesses, may lead to a reduction in 
volumes, disruption to our business, bankruptcies or liquidations of one or more large customers, which could 
reduce our revenues, increase our bad debt expense, reduce our ability to make capital expenditures or have other 
adverse effects on us.
Some of our infrastructure operations have customer contracts as well as concession agreements in place with 
public and private sector clients. Our operations with customer contracts could be adversely affected by any 
material change in the assets, financial condition or results of operations of such customers. Protecting the quality 
of our revenue streams through the inclusion of take-or-pay or guaranteed minimum volume provisions into our 
contracts is not always possible or fully effective.
Our infrastructure operations may require substantial capital expenditures to maintain our asset base. Any failure 
to make necessary expenditures to maintain our operations could impair our ability to serve existing customers or 
accommodate increased volumes. In addition, we may not be able to recover investments in capital expenditures 
based upon the rates our operations are able to charge.
y)     Private Equity
We face risks specific to our private equity activities.
The principal risks for our private equity businesses are potential loss of invested capital as well as insufficient 
investment or fee income to cover operating expenses and cost of capital. Our private equity platform is invested in 
130 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

industrial operations, business services operations and infrastructure services operations, many of which can be 
cyclical and/or illiquid and therefore may be difficult to monetize at our discretion, limiting our flexibility to react to 
changing economic or investment conditions. In addition, increasingly we have certain private equity businesses 
that provide goods and services directly to consumers across a variety of industries. These businesses are prone to 
greater liabilities, as well as reputational, litigation and other risks by virtue of being more public-facing and reliant 
on their ability to develop and preserve consumer relationships and achieve consumer satisfaction.
Unfavorable economic conditions could negatively impact the ability of investee companies to repay debt. Even with 
our support, such adverse economic conditions facing our investee companies may adversely impact the value of 
our investments or deplete our financial or management resources. These investments are also subject to the risks 
inherent in the underlying businesses, some of which are facing difficult business conditions and may continue to 
do so for the foreseeable future. These risks are compounded by recent growth, as new acquisitions have increased 
the scale and scope of our operations, including in new geographic areas and industry sectors, and we may have 
difficulty managing these additional operations. 
We may invest in companies that are experiencing significant financial or business difficulties, including companies 
involved in work-outs, liquidations, spin-outs, reorganizations, bankruptcies and similar transactions. Such an 
investment entails the risk that the transaction will be unsuccessful, will take considerable time or will result in a 
distribution of cash or new securities, the value of which may be less than the purchase price of the securities in 
respect of which such distribution is received. In addition, if an anticipated transaction does not occur, we may be 
required to sell our investment at a loss. Investments in businesses we target may become subject to legal and/or 
regulatory proceedings and our investment may be adversely affected by external events beyond our control, 
leading to legal, indemnification or other expenses.
We have several companies that operate in the highly competitive service industry. A wide variety of micro and 
macroeconomic factors affecting our clients and over which we have no control can impact how these companies 
operate. For example, our Canadian residential mortgage insurer is subject to significant regulation and may be 
adversely affected by changes in government policy. The majority of the revenue from our healthcare services 
operation is derived from private health insurance funds, which may be affected by a deterioration in the economic 
climate, a change in economic incentives, increases in private health insurance premiums and other factors. In 
addition, alternative technologies in the health care industry could impact the demand for, or use of, our services 
and could impair or eliminate the competitive advantage of our businesses in this industry.
Our infrastructure services operations include companies in lottery services, marine transportation and work access 
services. Our lottery services operation is heavily dependent on long-term contracts and failure to win, maintain and 
renew these contracts could substantially impact revenue. Our lottery services operation also often requires 
entering into strategic relationships with third parties, including competitors, which we do not control, and which 
may have inconsistent business interests or goals from us. Marine transportation and oil production is inherently 
risky, particularly in the extreme conditions in which many of our vessels operate. An incident involving significant 
loss of product or environmental contamination by any of our vessels could harm our reputation and business. Our 
work access services business is subject to the risks inherent to construction operations, including risks relating to 
seasonal fluctuations in the demand for our services, a dependence on labor and performance being materially 
impacted by a lack of availability of labor force or increases in the cost of labor available, and operational hazards 
that could result in personal injury or death, work stoppage or serious property and equipment damage.
z)    Real Estate
We face risks specific to our real estate activities.
We invest in commercial properties and are therefore exposed to certain risks inherent in the commercial real 
estate business. Commercial real estate investments are subject to varying degrees of risk depending on the nature 
of the property. These risks include changes in general economic conditions (such as the availability and cost of 
mortgage capital), local conditions (such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the 
markets in which we operate), the attractiveness of the properties to tenants, competition from other landlords and 
our ability to provide adequate maintenance at an economical cost.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 131

Certain expenditures, including property taxes, maintenance costs, mortgage payments, insurance costs and related 
charges, must be made whether or not a property is producing sufficient income to service these expenses. Our 
commercial properties are typically subject to mortgages that require debt service payments. If we become unable 
or unwilling to meet mortgage payments on any property, losses could be sustained as a result of the mortgagee’s 
exercise of its rights of foreclosure or of sale.
Continuation of rental income is dependent on favorable leasing markets to ensure expiring leases are renewed 
and new tenants are found promptly to fill vacancies. It is possible that we may face a disproportionate amount of 
space expiring in any one year. Additionally, rental rates could decline, tenant bankruptcies could increase and 
tenant renewals may not be achieved, particularly in the event of an economic slowdown.
Our real estate business operates in industries or geographies that may be impacted by the local, regional, national 
or international outbreak of a contagious disease. Adverse impacts on our business may also include:
• a complete or partial closure of, or other operational issues at, one or more of our properties resulting 
from government or tenant action and climate change events including hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis 
and other natural and man-made disasters;
• a slowdown in business activity may severely impact our tenants’ businesses, financial condition and 
liquidity and may cause one or more of our tenants to be unable to fund their business operations, meet 
their obligations to us in full, or at all, or to otherwise seek modifications of such obligations;
• an increase in re-leasing timelines, potential delays in lease-up of vacant space and the market rates at 
which such lease will be executed;
• reduced economic activity could result in a prolonged recession, which could negatively impact consumer 
discretionary spending; and
• expected completion dates for our development and redevelopment projects may be subject to delay as a 
result of the disruption of local economic conditions.
Our retail real estate operations are susceptible to any economic factors that have a negative impact on consumer 
spending. Lower consumer spending would have an unfavorable effect on the sales of our retail tenants, which 
could result in their inability or unwillingness to make all payments owing to us, and on our ability to keep existing 
tenants and attract new tenants. Significant expenditures associated with each equity investment in real estate 
assets, such as mortgage payments, property taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when there is 
a reduction in income from the investment, so our income and cash flow would be adversely affected by a decline in 
income from our retail properties. In addition, low occupancy or sales at our retail properties, as a result of 
competition or otherwise, could result in termination of or reduced rent payable under certain of our retail leases, 
which could adversely affect our retail property revenues.
Our hospitality and multifamily businesses are subject to a range of operating risks common to these industries, 
many of which are outside our control, and the profitability of our investments in these industries may be adversely 
affected by these factors. For example, our hospitality business faces risks relating to climate change hurricanes, 
earthquakes, tsunamis and other natural and man-made disasters; the potential spread of contagious diseases; and 
insect infestations more common to rental accommodations. Such factors could limit or reduce the demand for or 
the prices our hospitality properties are able to obtain for their accommodations or could increase our costs and 
therefore reduce the profitability of our hospitality businesses. There are numerous housing alternatives that 
compete with our multifamily properties, including other multifamily properties as well as condominiums and 
single-family homes. This competitive environment could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease 
apartment homes at our present properties or any newly developed or acquired real estate, as well as on the rents 
realized.
We face risks specific to our residential development and mixed-use activities.
Our residential homebuilding and land development operations are cyclical and significantly affected by changes in 
general and local economic, political and industry conditions, such as consumer confidence, employment levels, 
132 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

inflation levels, availability of financing for homebuyers, household debt, levels of new and existing homes for sale, 
demographic trends and housing demand. Competition from rental properties and resale homes, including homes 
held for sale by investors and foreclosed homes, may reduce our ability to sell new homes, depress prices and 
reduce margins for the sale of new homes.
Certain catastrophic events and supply chain disruptions may also result in a lack of availability or increased costs of 
required materials, utilities and resources which could delay or increase the cost of home construction and which 
could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Such events could result in construction delays and 
increased costs which may not be fully passed on to our buyers. 
Virtually all of our homebuilding customers finance their home acquisitions through mortgages. Even if potential 
customers do not need financing, changes in interest rates or the unavailability of mortgage capital could make it 
harder for them to sell their homes to potential buyers who need financing, resulting in a reduced demand for new 
homes. Increases in mortgage rates or reduced mortgage availability could adversely affect our ability to sell new 
homes and the prices at which we can sell them. Our Canadian markets continue to be impacted by changes to 
mortgage qualification rules that introduced stress tests for homebuyers and government policies relating to the 
Ontario real estate market and the Alberta energy sector surrounding pipeline approval. In the U.S., significant 
expenses incurred for purposes of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, 
generally are deductible expenses for an individual’s U.S. federal and, in some cases, state income taxes. 
The current economic environment also continues to impact the industry for retail and office properties in our 
mixed-use projects. As we depend on office, retail, and apartment tenants to generate income from these mixed-
use projects, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected by vacancies and tenant defaults or 
bankruptcy in our mixed-use properties, and we may be unable to renew leases or re-lease space in our mixed-use 
properties as leases expire.
We hold land for future development and may in the future acquire additional land holdings. The risks inherent in 
purchasing, owning and developing land increase as the demand for new homes decreases. Real estate markets are 
highly uncertain, and the value of undeveloped land has fluctuated significantly and may continue to fluctuate. In 
addition, land carrying costs can be significant and can result in losses or reduced profitability. As a result, we hold 
certain land, and may acquire additional land, in our development pipeline at a cost we may not be able to fully 
recover or at a cost which precludes profitable development.
Our residential development and mixed-use business is susceptible to adverse weather conditions, other 
environmental conditions, and natural disasters, as well as pandemics/epidemics, each of which could adversely 
affect our business and results of operations. For example, while none of our U.S. properties were materially 
adversely affected by the recent significant wildfires throughout Southern California, we could experience labor 
shortages, construction delays, or utility company delays, which in turn could impact our results.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 133

GLOSSARY OF TERMS
The below summarizes certain terms relating to our business that are made throughout the MD&A and it defines 
IFRS performance measures, non-IFRS performance measures and key operating measures that we use to analyze 
and discuss our results.
REFERENCES
“Brookfield,” the “company,” “we,” “us” or “our” refers to Brookfield Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. 
The “Corporation” refers to our business which is comprised of our Asset Management, Wealth Solutions and 
Operating Businesses.
We refer to investors in the Corporation as shareholders and we refer to investors in the private funds of our Asset 
Management business and perpetual affiliates as investors.
We use asset manager to refer to Brookfield Asset Management ULC which offers a variety of investment products 
to our investors:
• We have over 50 active funds across major asset classes: renewable power and transition, infrastructure, 
private equity, real estate and credit. These funds include core, credit, value-add and opportunistic closed-end 
funds and core long-life funds. We refer to these funds as the private funds of our Asset Management business.
• We refer to BEP, BEPC, BIP, BIPC, BBU, BBUC and BPG, as our perpetual affiliates. 
• We refer to our public securities group as liquid strategies. This group manages fee-bearing capital through 
numerous funds and separately managed accounts, focused on fixed income and equity securities.
Throughout the MD&A and consolidated financial statements, the following operating companies, joint ventures 
and associates, and their respective subsidiaries, will be referenced as follows:
•   BAM – Brookfield Asset Management ULC •   BIPC – Brookfield Infrastructure Corporation
•   BBU – Brookfield Business Partners L.P. •   BIHC – Brookfield Infrastructure Holdings Corporation
•   BBUC – Brookfield Business Corporation •   BPG – Brookfield Property Group
•   BEP – Brookfield Renewable Partners L.P. •   BPY – Brookfield Property Partners L.P.
•   BEPC – Brookfield Renewable Corporation •   BWS – Brookfield Wealth Solutions Ltd.
•   BRHC – Brookfield Renewable Holdings Corporation •   Oaktree – Oaktree Capital Management L.P.
•   BIP – Brookfield Infrastructure Partners L.P. •   AEL – American Equity Life
PERFORMANCE MEASURES
Definitions of performance measures, including IFRS, non-IFRS and operating measures, are presented below in 
alphabetical order. We have specifically identified those measures which are IFRS or non-IFRS measures; the 
remainder are operating measures.
Assets under management (“AUM”) refers to the total fair value of assets that our Asset Management business 
manages, on a gross asset value basis, including assets for which this business earns management fees and those 
for which they do not. AUM is calculated as follows: (i) for investments that Brookfield consolidates for accounting 
purposes or actively manages, including investments in which Brookfield or a controlled investment vehicle is the 
largest shareholder or the primary operator or manager, at 100% of the investment’s total assets on a fair value 
basis; and (ii) for all other investments, at Brookfield’s or its controlled investment vehicle’s, as applicable, 
proportionate share of the investment’s total assets on a fair value basis. Our Asset Management business’ 
methodology for determining AUM may differ from the methodology employed by other alternative asset managers 
and Brookfield’s AUM presented herein may differ from our AUM reflected in other public filings and/or our Form 
ADV and Form PF.
134 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

Base management fees, which are determined by contractual arrangements, are typically equal to a percentage of 
fee-bearing capital  and are accrued quarterly. Base management fees, including private fund base fees and 
perpetual affiliate base fees, are IFRS measures.
Private fund base fees are typically earned on fee-bearing capital from third-party investors only and are earned on 
invested and/or uninvested fund capital, depending on the stage of the fund life.
Perpetual affiliate base fees  are earned on the total capitalization or net asset value of our perpetual affiliates, 
which includes our investment. Base fees for BEP include a quarterly fixed fee amount of $5 million, with additional 
fees of 1.25% on the increase in capitalization above their initial capitalization of $8 billion. Base fees for BIP and 
BBU are 1.25% of total capitalization. Base fees for BPG are 1.05% of net asset value, excluding its interests in 
private funds and investments which  were held directly by Brookfield prior to the BPY privatization. Perpetual 
affiliate capitalization as at December 31, 2024, was as follows: BEP/BEPC – $21.5 billion; BIP/BIPC – $31.9 billion; 
BBU/BBUC – $8.1 billion; and BPG – $16.6 billion.
Carry eligible capital  represents the capital committed, pledged or invested in the private funds that we manage 
and which entitle us to earn carried interest. Carry eligible capital includes both invested and uninvested (i.e., 
uncalled) private fund amounts as well as those amounts invested directly by investors (co-investments) if those 
entitle us to earn carried interest. We believe this measure is useful to investors as it provides additional insight into 
the capital base upon which we have potential to earn carried interest once minimum investment returns are 
sufficiently assured.
Carried interest  is a contractual arrangement whereby we receive a fixed percentage of investment gains 
generated within a private fund provided that the investors receive a predetermined minimum return. Carried 
interest is typically paid towards the end of the life of a fund after the capital has been returned to investors and 
may be subject to “clawback” until all investments have been monetized and minimum investment returns are 
sufficiently assured.
Realized carried interest  is an IFRS measure and represents our share of investment returns based on realized 
gains within a private fund. Realized carried interest earned is recognized when an underlying investment is 
profitably disposed of and the fund’s cumulative returns are in excess of preferred returns, in accordance with the 
respective terms set out in the fund’s governing agreements, and when the probability of clawback is remote. We 
include realized carried interest when determining our Asset Management segment results within our consolidated 
financial statements.
Realized carried interest, net  is a non-IFRS measure and represents realized carried interest after direct costs, 
which include employee expenses and cash taxes. A reconciliation of realized carried interest to realized carried 
interest, net, is shown below:
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Realized carried interest
1
     .................................................................................................................... $ 801 $ 1,006 
Less: direct costs associated with realized carried interest.........................................................  (299)  (372) 
 502  634 
Less: realized carried interest not attributable to Corporation    ..................................................  (99)  (64) 
Realized carried interest, net    .............................................................................................................. $ 403 $ 570 
1. Includes $591 million of realized carried interest related to Oaktree (2023  – $395 million). For segment reporting, Oaktree’s revenue is shown on 
a 100% basis.
Consolidated capitalization is a non-IFRS measure that reflects the full capitalization of wholly owned and partially 
owned entities that we consolidate in our financial statements. Our consolidated capitalization includes 100% of the 
debt of the consolidated entities even though in many cases we only own a portion of the entity and therefore our 
pro-rata exposure to this debt is much lower. In other cases, this basis of presentation excludes the debt of partially 
owned entities that are accounted for following the equity method.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 135

Core liquidity is a non-IFRS measure that represents the amount of cash, financial assets and undrawn credit lines 
at the Corporation, perpetual affiliates and directly held investments. We use core liquidity as a key measure of our 
ability to fund future transactions and capitalize on opportunities as they arise. Our core liquidity also allows us to 
backstop the transactions of our various businesses as necessary and fund the development of new activities that 
are not yet suitable for our investors.
Total liquidity represents the sum of core liquidity and uncalled private fund commitments and is used to pursue 
new transactions.
Corporate capitalization represents the amount of debt issued by the Corporation, accounts payable and deferred 
tax liability in our Corporate Activities segment as well as our issued and outstanding common and preferred 
shares. 
Debt to capitalization  is determined as the aggregate of corporate borrowings and non-recourse borrowings 
divided by total capitalization. Draws on revolving facilities and commercial paper issuances are excluded from the 
debt to capitalization ratios as they are not permanent sources of capital.
Distributions (current rate)  represents the distributions that we would receive during the next twelve months 
based on the current distribution rates of the investments that we currently hold. The dividends from our listed 
investments are calculated by multiplying the number of shares held by the most recently announced distribution 
policy. The yield on cash and financial assets portfolio is calculated as our targeted return on our cash and financial 
assets portfolio less the cost of amounts on deposit from BAM. Distributions on our unlisted investments are 
calculated based on the distributions received over the last twelve month period.
Distributable earnings (“DE”) is our primary performance measure and a non-IFRS measure that provides insight 
into earnings received by the Corporation that are available for distribution to common shareholders or to be 
reinvested into the business. It is calculated as the sum of the DE from our asset management and wealth solutions 
businesses, distributions received from our ownership of investments, realized carried interest and disposition 
gains from principal investments, net of earnings from our corporate activities, preferred share dividends and 
equity-based compensation costs.
Distributable earnings before realizations from our Asset Management business is comprised of fee-related 
earnings and other income (expenses), net of cash taxes and equity-based compensation costs from BAM, as well as 
FFO on direct investments.
Distributable earnings from our Wealth Solutions business is equivalent to its distributable operating earnings 
(“DOE”), which is calculated as net income from our Wealth Solutions business, excluding the impact of depreciation 
and amortization, deferred income taxes, net income from our equity accounted investments, mark-to-market on 
investments and derivatives, breakage and transaction costs, and is inclusive of our proportionate share of DOE 
from investments in associates. 
Distributable earnings before realizations (“DE before realizations”)  is DE before realized carried interest and 
realized disposition gains from principal investments. We use DE before realizations to provide additional insight 
regarding recurring DE of the business.
136 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

The following table reconciles net income to DE, DE before realizations, FFO, and Operating FFO:
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Net income  ................................................................................................................................................... $ 1,853 $ 5,105 
Financial statement components not included in FFO:
Equity accounted fair value changes and other non-FFO items
1
   ...................................................  2,679  2,902 
Fair value changes and other     .................................................................................................................  2,652  1,952 
Depreciation and amortization   ..............................................................................................................  9,737  9,075 
Deferred income taxes     ............................................................................................................................  (341)  (897) 
Realized disposition gains in fair value changes or equity     .................................................................  1,223  634 
Non-controlling interests in FFO
2
      .............................................................................................................  (11,567)  (12,550) 
Funds from operations    ............................................................................................................................  6,236  6,221 
Less: total disposition gains   .......................................................................................................................  (1,460)  (2,105) 
Less: realized carried interest, net    ...........................................................................................................  (403)  (570) 
Operating funds from operations    ........................................................................................................  4,373  3,546 
Less: Operating FFO from BAM    .................................................................................................................  (1,708)  (1,649) 
Less: Operating FFO from Asset Management direct investments    ..................................................  (30)  109 
Less: Operating FFO from Operating Businesses       .................................................................................  (1,968)  (1,731) 
Distributions from BAM    ..............................................................................................................................  1,736  1,678 
Distributions from Asset Management direct investments   ...............................................................  909  876 
Distributions from Operating Businesses     ..............................................................................................  1,626  1,462 
Add back: equity-based compensation costs     ........................................................................................  109  108 
Preferred share dividends  ..........................................................................................................................  (176)  (176) 
Distributable earnings before realizations .......................................................................................  4,871  4,223 
Realized carried interest, net
3
     ...................................................................................................................  403  570 
Disposition gains from principal investments    .......................................................................................  1,000  13 
Distributable earnings    ............................................................................................................................. $ 6,274 $ 4,806 
1. Other non-FFO items correspond to amounts that are not directly related to revenue earning activities and are not normal or recurring items 
necessary for business operations. In addition, this adjustment is to back out non-FFO expenses (income) that are included in consolidated equity 
accounted income including depreciation and amortization, deferred taxes and fair value changes from equity accounted investments.
2. Amounts attributable to non-controlling interests are calculated based on the economic ownership interests held by non-controlling interests in 
consolidated subsidiaries. By adjusting FFO attributable to non-controlling interests, we are able to remove the portion of FFO earned at non-
wholly owned subsidiaries that is not attributable to Brookfield.
3. Includes our share of Oaktree’s distributable earnings attributable to realized carried interest.
We assess our segment performance using DE from our Asset Management segment, DE from our Wealth Solutions 
business, NOI from our Real Estate segment, and FFO for all other segments as our key measures of financial 
performance and our segment measures of profit and loss. Refer to Note 3 Segmented Information in our 
consolidated financial statements for a reconciliation of net income to segment measures of profit or loss.
Economic ownership interest represents the company’s proportionate equity interest in our listed partnerships 
which can include redemption-exchange units (“REUs”), Class A limited partnership units, special limited partnership 
units and general partnership units in each subsidiary, where applicable, as well as any units or shares issued in 
subsidiaries that are exchangeable for units in our listed partnerships (“exchange units”). REUs and exchange units 
share the same economic attributes as the Class  A limited partnership units in all respects except for our 
redemption right, which the listed partnership can satisfy through the issuance of Class A limited partnership units. 
The REUs, general partnership units and exchange units participate in earnings and distributions on a per unit basis 
equivalent to the per unit participation of the Class A limited partnership units of the subsidiary.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 137

Fee-bearing capital represents the capital committed, pledged or invested in the perpetual affiliates, our wealth 
solutions business, private funds and liquid strategies that our Asset Management business manages which entitles 
this business to earn fee revenues. Fee-bearing capital includes both called (“invested”) and uncalled (“pledged” or 
“committed”) amounts. When reconciling period amounts, we utilize the following definitions:
• Inflows include capital commitments and contributions to our private and liquid strategies funds and equity 
issuances in our perpetual affiliates.
• Outflows represent distributions and redemptions of capital from within the liquid strategies capital.
• Distributions represent quarterly distributions from perpetual affiliates as well as returns of committed capital 
(excluding market valuation adjustments), redemptions and expiry of uncalled commitments within our private 
funds.
• Market valuation  includes gains (losses) on portfolio investments, perpetual affiliates and liquid strategies 
based on market prices.
• Other includes changes in net non-recourse debt included in the determination of perpetual affiliate 
capitalization and the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations on non-U.S. dollar commitments.
Long-term private funds are long duration and closed-end in nature and include value-add and opportunistic 
strategies. Capital is typically committed for 10 years from the inception of the fund with two one-year extension 
options.
Perpetual strategies include capital in our perpetual affiliates and perpetual private funds, which includes core and 
core plus strategies that can continually raise new capital.
Liquid strategies represent publicly listed funds and separately managed accounts, focused on fixed income and 
equity securities across a number of difference sectors.
Fee-related earnings  is a non-IFRS measure and is comprised of fee revenues less direct costs associated with 
earning those fees, which include employee expenses and professional fees as well as business related technology 
costs, other shared services and taxes. We use this measure to provide additional insight into the operating 
profitability of our Asset Management business. See the below table which reconciles fee revenues and fee-related 
earnings to revenue, the most comparable IFRS measure.
Fee revenues is a non-IFRS measure and includes base management fees, incentive distributions, performance fees 
and transaction fees presented within our Asset Management segment. Fee revenues exclude carried interest. 
Many of these items do not appear in consolidated revenues because they are earned from consolidated entities 
and are eliminated on consolidation. The following table reconciles fee revenues and fee-related earnings to 
revenue, the most comparable IFRS measure:
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Revenue   ........................................................................................................................................................... $ 86,006 $ 95,924 
Add: fee revenues from Oaktree  ................................................................................................................  1,278  1,203 
Add: inter-segment and other fee revenues    ...........................................................................................  2,498  2,618 
Less: external revenues from consolidated subsidiaries other than BAM   .......................................  (85,076)  (95,364) 
Fee revenues     .................................................................................................................................................  4,706  4,381 
Direct costs   ......................................................................................................................................................  (2,136)  (2,014) 
 2,570  2,367 
Less: amounts attributable to other shareholders     ................................................................................  (114)  (126) 
Fee-related earnings    ................................................................................................................................... $ 2,456 $ 2,241 
138 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

Funds from operations (“FFO”) is a non-IFRS measure that includes the fees that we earn from our Asset 
Management business managing capital as well as our share of revenues earned and costs incurred within our 
operations, which include interest expense and other costs. Specifically, FFO includes the impact of contracts that 
we enter into to generate revenue, including asset management agreements, power sales agreements, contracts 
that our Operating Businesses enter into such as leases and take or pay contracts and sales of inventory. FFO also 
includes the impact of changes in borrowings or the cost of borrowings as well as other costs incurred to operate 
our business. FFO also includes realized disposition gains and losses, which are defined in this glossary of terms.
We use realized disposition gains and losses within FFO in order to provide additional insight regarding the 
performance of  investments on a cumulative realized basis, including any unrealized fair value adjustments that 
were recorded in equity and not otherwise reflected in current period FFO, and believe it is useful to investors to 
better understand variances between reporting periods. We exclude depreciation and amortization from FFO as we 
believe that the value of most of our assets typically increases over time, provided we make the necessary 
maintenance expenditures, the timing and magnitude of which may differ from the amount of depreciation 
recorded in any given period. In addition, the depreciated cost base of our assets is reflected in the ultimate realized 
disposition gain or loss on disposal. As noted above, unrealized fair value changes are excluded from FFO until the 
period in which the asset is sold. We also exclude deferred income taxes from FFO because  the vast majority of 
the  company’s deferred income tax assets and liabilities are a result of the revaluation of our assets under IFRS 
Accounting Standards.
Our definition of FFO differs from the definition used by other organizations, as well as the definition of FFO used by 
the Real Property Association of Canada (“REALPAC”) and the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, 
Inc. (“NAREIT”), in part because the NAREIT definition is based on U.S. GAAP, as opposed to IFRS Accounting 
Standards. The key difference between our definition of FFO and the determination of FFO by REALPAC and/or 
NAREIT is that we include the following: realized disposition gains or losses and cash taxes payable or receivable on 
those gains or losses, if any; foreign exchange gains or losses on monetary items not forming part of our net 
investment in foreign operations; and foreign exchange gains or losses on the sale of an investment in a foreign 
operation. We do not use FFO as a measure of cash generated from our operations.
Operating FFO is a non-IFRS measure calculated as FFO excluding realized disposition gains. We use Operating FFO 
to provide additional insight regarding recurring performance of the business.
Incentive distributions is an IFRS measure and is determined by contractual arrangements; incentive distributions 
are paid to our Asset Management business by BEP and BIP and represent a portion of distributions paid by 
perpetual affiliates above a predetermined hurdle. Incentive distributions are accrued on the record date of the 
associated distributions of the entity.
A summary of our distribution hurdles and current distribution rates is as follows:
AS AT DEC. 31, 2024
Current
Distribution 
Rate
1
Distribution 
Hurdles
(per unit)
2 Incentive
Distributions
Brookfield Infrastructure (BIP)
3
  .................................................. $ 1.72 $ 0.49 / $ 0.53 15% / 25%
Brookfield Renewable (BEP)
4
     ......................................................  1.49  0.80 /  0.90 15% / 25%
1. Current rate based on most recently announced distribution rates.
2. Incentive distributions equate to 18% and 33% of limited partner distribution increases over the first and second hurdles, respectively.
3. Incentive distributions from Brookfield Infrastructure are earned on distributions made by BIP and BIPC. 
4. Incentive distributions from Brookfield Renewable are earned on distributions made by BEP and BEPC. 
Invested capital consists of our perpetual investments, which include our interests in BAM and perpetual affiliates, 
other investments and corporate activities. Our invested capital provides us with FFO and cash distributions.
Invested capital, net consists of invested capital and leverage.
Leverage represents the amount of corporate borrowings and perpetual preferred shares held by the company.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 139

Long-term average (“LTA”) generation is used in our Renewable Power and Transition segment and is determined 
based on expected electrical generation from its assets in commercial operation during the year. For assets 
acquired, disposed, or reaching commercial operation during the year, LTA generation is calculated from the 
acquisition or commercial operation date or to the disposition date. In Brazil, assured generation levels are used as 
a proxy for LTA. We compare LTA generation to actual generation levels to assess the impact on revenues and FFO 
of hydrology, wind generation levels and irradiance, which vary from one period to the next.
Net operating income (“NOI”) is a key measure of our Real Estate segment’s financial performance that refers to 
the revenues from our operations less direct expenses before the impact of depreciation and amortization within 
our real estate business. Refer to Note 3 Segmented Information in our consolidated financial statements for a 
reconciliation of net income to segment measures of profit or loss.
Performance fees is an IFRS measure. Performance fees are generated by our Asset Management business when 
the unit price performance of BBU exceeds a prescribed high-water mark. In addition, performance fees are earned 
on certain liquid strategy portfolios. BBU performance fees are based on the quarterly volume-weighted average 
increase in BBU unit price over the previous threshold and are accrued on a quarterly basis, whereas performance 
fees within liquid strategy funds are typically determined on an annual basis. These fees are not subject to 
clawback.
Proportionate basis generation  is used in our Renewable Power and Transition segment to describe the total 
amount of power generated by facilities held by BEP, at BEP’s respective economic ownership interest percentage.
Realized disposition gains/losses  is a component of FFO and includes gains or losses arising from transactions 
during the reporting period together with any fair value changes and revaluation surplus recorded in prior periods 
and are presented net of cash taxes payable or receivable. Realized disposition gains include amounts that are 
recorded in net income, other comprehensive income and as ownership changes in our consolidated statements of 
equity, and exclude amounts attributable to non-controlling interests unless otherwise noted. We use realized 
disposition gains/losses to provide additional insight regarding the performance of investments on a cumulative 
realized basis, including any unrealized fair value adjustments that were recorded in prior periods and not 
otherwise reflected in current period FFO, and believe it is useful to investors to better understand variances 
between reporting periods.
Same-store or same-property  represents the earnings contribution from assets or investments held throughout 
both the current and prior reporting period on a constant ownership basis. We utilize same-store analysis to 
illustrate the growth in earnings excluding the impact of acquisitions or dispositions.
Unrealized carried interest  is the change in accumulated unrealized carried interest from prior period and 
represents the amount of carried interest generated during the period. We use this measure to provide insight into 
the value our investments have created in the period.
Accumulated unrealized carried interest is based on carried interest that would be receivable under the contractual 
formula at the period end date as if a fund was liquidated and all investments had been monetized at the values 
recorded on that date. We use this measure to provide insight into our potential to realize carried interest in the 
future. 
Accumulated unrealized carried interest, net  is accumulated unrealized carried interest after direct costs, which 
include employee expenses and taxes.
140 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL 
REPORTING 
Management of Brookfield Corporation (Brookfield) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over 
financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the Chief Executive 
Officer and the Chief Financial Officer and effected by the Board of Directors, management and other personnel to provide reasonable 
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in 
accordance with IFRS ® Accounting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board as defined in Regulation 
240.13a-15(f) or 240.15d-15(f). 
Management assessed the effectiveness of Brookfield’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2024, based on 
the criteria set forth in  Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the 
Treadway Commission. Based on this assessment, management concludes that, as of December 31, 2024, Brookfield’s internal control 
over financial reporting is effective. Management excluded from its assessment the internal control over financial reporting at Cyxtera 
Technologies Inc, ATC Telecom Infrastructure Private Limited, a wind-focused commercial and industrial renewable business in 
India, with 524 MW of operating assets and a 2.75 GW development pipeline, a fully integrated distributed-generation renewable 
platform in South Korea, with 103 MW of operating and under-construction assets and a 2.2 GW development pipeline, and Neoen, 
the global renewable energy developer headquartered in France, with 8 GW of operating and under-construction renewable power and 
energy storage assets, as well as a 20 GW development pipeline, which were acquired during 2024, and whose total assets, net assets, 
revenues and net income constitute approximately 4%, 5%, 1% and -2%, respectively, of the consolidated financial statement amounts 
as of and for the year ended December 31, 2024. 
Brookfield’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2024, has been audited by Deloitte LLP, the Independent 
Registered Public Accounting Firm, who also audited Brookfield’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 
2024. As stated in the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, Deloitte LLP expressed an unqualified opinion on 
the effectiveness of Brookfield’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2024. 
Bruce Flatt
Chief Executive Officer
Nicholas Goodman
President and Chief Financial Officer
March 21, 2025
Toronto, Canada
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 141

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Brookfield Corporation
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Brookfield Corporation and subsidiaries (the “Corporation”) as of 
December 31, 2024 , based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by the Committee of 
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the Corporation maintained, in all material respects, 
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2024 , based on criteria established in Internal Control — 
Integrated Framework (2013) issued by COSO.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) 
(PCAOB), the consolidated financial statements as at and for the year ended December 31, 2024  of the Corporation and our report 
dated March 21, 2025, expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements.
As described in Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, management excluded from its assessment the 
internal control over financial reporting at Cyxtera Technologies Inc, ATC Telecom Infrastructure Private Limited, a wind-focused 
commercial and industrial renewable business in India, with 524 MW of operating assets and a 2.75 GW development pipeline, a fully 
integrated distributed-generation renewable platform in South Korea, with 103 MW of operating and under-construction assets and a 
2.2 GW development pipeline, and Neoen, the global renewable energy developer headquartered in France, with 8 GW of operating 
and under-construction renewable power and energy storage assets, as well as a 20 GW development pipeline (the “current year 
acquisitions”) which were acquired during 2024, and whose financial statements constitute, in aggregate, 4% of total assets, 5% of net 
assets, 1% of revenues, and -2% of net income of the consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year ended December 
31, 2024. Accordingly, our audit did not include the internal control over financial reporting at the current year acquisitions.
Basis for Opinion
The Corporation’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment 
of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal 
Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Corporation’s internal control over financial 
reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with 
respect to the Corporation in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities 
and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit 
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. 
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness 
exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such 
other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our 
opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the 
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the 
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in 
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect 
on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections 
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in 
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ Deloitte LLP
Chartered Professional Accountants
Licensed Public Accountants
Toronto, Canada
March 21, 2025
142 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
The accompanying consolidated financial statements and other financial information in this Annual Report have been prepared by the 
company’s management which is responsible for their integrity, consistency, objectivity and reliability. To fulfill this responsibility, 
the company maintains policies, procedures and systems of internal control to ensure that its reporting practices and accounting and 
administrative procedures are appropriate to provide a high degree of assurance that is relevant and reliable financial information is 
produced and assets are safeguarded. These controls include the careful selection and training of employees, the establishment of well-
defined areas of responsibility and accountability for performance, and the communication of policies and code of conduct throughout 
the company. In addition, the company maintains an internal audit group that conducts periodic audits of the company’s operations. 
The Chief Internal Auditor has full access to the Audit Committee. 
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with IFRS ® Accounting Standards as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board and, where appropriate, reflect estimates based on management’s judgment. The financial 
information presented throughout this Annual Report is consistent with the information contained in the accompanying consolidated 
financial statements. 
Deloitte LLP, the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm appointed by the shareholders, have audited the consolidated 
financial statements set out on pages 146 through 229 in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight 
Board (United States) to enable them to express to the shareholders and the board of directors their opinion on the consolidated 
financial statements. Their report is set out on the following page. 
The consolidated financial statements have been further reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors acting through its Audit 
Committee, which is comprised of directors who are neither officers nor employees of the company. The Audit Committee, which 
meets with the auditors and management to review the activities of each and reports to the Board of Directors, oversees management’s 
responsibilities for the financial reporting and internal control systems. The auditors have full and direct access to the Audit 
Committee and meet periodically with the committee both with and without management present to discuss their audit and related 
findings. 
Bruce Flatt
Chief Executive Officer
Nicholas Goodman
President and Chief Financial Officer
March 21, 2025
Toronto, Canada
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 143

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Brookfield Corporation
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Brookfield Corporation and subsidiaries (the “Corporation”) as at 
December 31, 2024 and 2023, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, changes in equity, and cash 
flows, for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2024, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “financial 
statements”). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Corporation as 
at December 31, 2024 and 2023, and its financial performance and its cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended 
December 31, 2024, in accordance with IFRS Accounting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) 
(PCAOB), the Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2024, based on criteria established in 
Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission 
and our report dated March 21, 2025, expressed an unqualified opinion on the Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Corporation’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
Corporation’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required 
to be independent with respect to the Corporation in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and 
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit 
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. 
Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to 
error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence 
regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used 
and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe 
that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matter
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current-period audit of the financial statements that was 
communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material 
to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of 
critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by 
communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or 
disclosures to which it relates.
Fair Value of Investment Properties and Property, Plant and Equipment – Refer to Notes 2(h)(i), 2(h)(ii), 11, 
and 12 to the financial statements
Critical Audit Matter Description
The Corporation has elected the fair value model for investment properties and the revaluation model for certain classes of property, 
plant and equipment, namely the Corporation’s utilities, transport, midstream, data and renewable power generating assets. Upon 
initial recognition of these assets, the purchase price of each acquisition is allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
based on their respective fair values. Subsequent to initial recognition, the Corporation measures these assets at fair value or revalued 
amount.
A selection of investment properties and certain classes of property, plant and equipment have limited observable market activity, 
which requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions in the determination of fair value at both the date of 
acquisition and at the measurement date. The estimates and assumptions with the highest degree of subjectivity and impact on fair 
values are future expected market rents, terminal capitalization rates, discount rates, future revenues, terminal value multiples, future 
electricity prices, terminal value, anticipated long-term average generation, and estimated operating and capital expenditures. Auditing 
these estimates and assumptions required a high degree of auditor judgment as the estimations made by management contain 
significant measurement uncertainty. This resulted in an increased extent of audit effort, including the need to involve fair value 
specialists.
144 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit 
Our audit procedures related to future expected market rents, terminal capitalization rates, discount rates, future revenues, terminal 
value multiples, future electricity prices, terminal value, anticipated long-term average generation and estimated operating and capital 
expenditures included the following, among others:
• Evaluated the effectiveness of controls, including those over the estimates of future expected market rents, terminal capitalization 
rates, discount rates, future revenues, terminal value multiples, future electricity prices, terminal values, anticipated long-term 
average generation and operating and capital expenditures. 
• Evaluated the reasonableness of management’s forecast of future expected market rents by comparing management’s forecasts 
with historical results, internal communications to management and the Board of Directors and contractual information, where 
applicable. With the assistance of fair value specialists, evaluated the reasonableness of management's forecasts of future 
expected market rents and estimates of terminal capitalization rates by considering recent market transactions and industry 
surveys.
• With the assistance of fair value specialists, evaluated the reasonableness of the discount rates by (1) testing the source 
information underlying the determination of the discount rates; (2) developing a range of independent estimates and comparing 
those to the discount rates selected by management; (3) considering recent market transactions and industry surveys; and (4) 
considering of benchmark interest rates, geographic location, whether the asset is contracted or uncontracted and type of 
technology; where applicable.
• Evaluated management’s ability to accurately estimate future revenues by comparing actual results to management’s historical 
forecasts and assessed their reasonableness by considering observable independent macroeconomic data. 
• With the assistance of fair value specialists, evaluated the reasonableness of management’s determination of terminal value 
multiples by testing the source information underlying the determination of terminal value multiples and developing a range of 
independent estimates and comparing those to the terminal value multiples selected by management.
• With the assistance of fair value specialists, inspected management’s valuation analysis and assessed the estimates of future 
electricity prices by reference to shorter-term broker price quotes and management’s longer-term market forecasts specific to 
each region and power generating asset. 
• Involved fair value specialists in the evaluation of the terminal values which included consideration of benchmark interest rates, 
geographic location, whether the asset is contracted or uncontracted and type of technology.
• For a sample of power generating assets, agreed contracted power prices to executed power purchase agreements and assessing 
the anticipated long-term average generation through corroboration with third party engineering reports and historical trends.
• Assessed the estimated operating and capital expenditures by comparison to historical data and to third party data for a selection 
of assets through corroboration with third party engineering reports.
/s/ Deloitte LLP
Chartered Professional Accountants
Licensed Public Accountants
Toronto, Canada
March 21, 2025
We have served as the Corporation’s auditor since 1971. 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 145

Consolidated Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) Note 2024 2023
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents   ........................................................................................................... 6 $ 15,051 $ 11,222 
Other financial assets   .................................................................................................................. 6  25,887  28,324 
Accounts receivable and other     .................................................................................................... 7  30,218  28,512 
Inventory    ..................................................................................................................................... 8  8,458  11,412 
Assets classified as held for sale   ................................................................................................. 9  10,291  2,489 
Equity accounted investments   ..................................................................................................... 10  68,310  59,124 
Investment properties   .................................................................................................................. 11  103,665  124,152 
Property, plant and equipment     .................................................................................................... 12  153,019  147,617 
Intangible assets     .......................................................................................................................... 13  36,072  38,994 
Goodwill    ...................................................................................................................................... 14  35,730  34,911 
Deferred income tax assets  .......................................................................................................... 15  3,723  3,338 
Total assets    .................................................................................................................................... $ 490,424 $ 490,095 
Liabilities and equity
Corporate borrowings     .................................................................................................................. 16 $ 14,232 $ 12,160 
Accounts payable and other      ........................................................................................................ 17  55,502  58,893 
Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale   ........................................................ 9  4,721  118 
Non-recourse borrowings of managed entities    ............................................................................ 18  220,560  221,550 
Deferred income tax liabilities  .................................................................................................... 15  25,267  24,987 
Subsidiary equity obligations     ...................................................................................................... 19  4,759  4,145 
Equity
Preferred equity     ........................................................................................................................... 21  4,103  4,103 
Non-controlling interests   ............................................................................................................. 21  119,406  122,465 
Common equity   ........................................................................................................................... 21  41,874  41,674 
Total equity    ....................................................................................................................................  165,383  168,242 
Total liabilities and equity  ........................................................................................................... $ 490,424 $ 490,095 
These consolidated financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors of the company on March 15, 2025.
Bruce Flatt
Director
146 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
FOR THE PERIODS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS) Note 2024 2023
Revenues    .................................................................................................................................. 22 $ 86,006 $ 95,924 
Direct costs ............................................................................................................................... 23  (67,936)  (81,409) 
Other income and gains     ...........................................................................................................  1,247  6,501 
Equity accounted income   ......................................................................................................... 10  2,729  2,068 
Expenses
Interest
Corporate borrowings     .........................................................................................................  (727)  (596) 
Non-recourse borrowings   ...................................................................................................  (15,888)  (14,907) 
Corporate costs ......................................................................................................................  (76)  (69) 
Fair value changes  .................................................................................................................... 24  (2,520)  (1,396) 
Income taxes     ............................................................................................................................ 15  (982)  (1,011) 
Net income     ............................................................................................................................... $ 1,853 $ 5,105 
Net income attributable to:
Shareholders    .......................................................................................................................... $ 641 $ 1,130 
Non-controlling interests     ......................................................................................................  1,212  3,975 
$ 1,853 $ 5,105 
Net income per share:
Diluted ................................................................................................................................... 21 $ 0.31 $ 0.61 
Basic   ...................................................................................................................................... 21  0.31  0.62 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 147

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE PERIODS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) Note 2024 2023
Net income     .................................................................................................................................. $ 1,853 $ 5,105 
Other comprehensive income (loss)
Items that may be reclassified to net income
Financial contracts and power sale agreements     ....................................................................  (139)  (354) 
Marketable securities     ............................................................................................................  289  210 
Equity accounted investments  ............................................................................................... 10  319  106 
Foreign currency translation      .................................................................................................  (4,038)  1,770 
Income taxes     ......................................................................................................................... 15  85  78 
 (3,484)  1,810 
Items that will not be reclassified to net income
Revaluation of property, plant and equipment   ...................................................................... 12  8,036  1,489 
Revaluation of pension obligations    ....................................................................................... 17  118  (11) 
Equity accounted investments  ............................................................................................... 10  1,079  581 
Marketable securities     ............................................................................................................  83  39 
Income taxes     ......................................................................................................................... 15  (2,106)  (178) 
 7,210  1,920 
Other comprehensive income    .....................................................................................................  3,726  3,730 
Comprehensive income    ............................................................................................................... $ 5,579 $ 8,835 
Attributable to:
Shareholders
Net income     ............................................................................................................................ $ 641 $ 1,130 
Other comprehensive income    ...............................................................................................  766  803 
Comprehensive income    ......................................................................................................... $ 1,407 $ 1,933 
Non-controlling interests
Net income     ............................................................................................................................ $ 1,212 $ 3,975 
Other comprehensive income    ...............................................................................................  2,960  2,927 
Comprehensive income    ......................................................................................................... $ 4,172 $ 6,902 
 
148 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
AS AT AND FOR THE YEAR 
ENDED DEC. 31, 2024
(MILLIONS)
    
Accumulated Other
Comprehensive Income (Loss)    
Common
Share
Capital
Contributed
Surplus
Retained
Earnings
Ownership
Changes1
Revaluation
Surplus
Currency
Translation
Reserves 
and Other2
Total
Common
Equity
Preferred
Equity
Non-
controlling
Interests
Total
Equity
Balance as at 
December 31, 2023   ................ $ 10,879 $ 112 $ 18,006 $ 4,510 $ 8,958 $ (2,477) $ 1,686 $ 41,674 $ 4,103 $ 122,465 $ 168,242 
Net income   ..............................  —  —  641  —  —  —  —  641  —  1,212  1,853 
Other comprehensive income 
(loss)   .....................................  —  —  —  —  749  (778)  795  766  —  2,960  3,726 
Comprehensive income 
(loss)   .....................................  —  —  641  —  749  (778)  795  1,407  —  4,172  5,579 
Shareholder distributions
Common equity   ....................  —  —  (495)  —  —  —  —  (495)  —  —  (495) 
Preferred equity  ....................  —  —  (168)  —  —  —  —  (168)  —  —  (168) 
Non-controlling interests     .....  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  (7,815)  (7,815) 
Other items
Repurchases, net of equity 
issuances      ...............................  (73)  (35)  (832)  —  —  —  —  (940)  —  9,079  8,139 
Share-based compensation   ...  —  37  (86)  —  —  —  —  (49)  —  —  (49) 
Ownership changes   ..............  —  —  —  535  (123)  4  29  445  —  (8,495)  (8,050) 
Total change in year  ..............  (73)  2  (940)  535  626  (774)  824  200  —  (3,059)  (2,859) 
Balance as at                              
December 31, 2024   ................ $ 10,806 $ 114 $ 17,066 $ 5,045 $ 9,584 $ (3,251) $ 2,510 $ 41,874 $ 4,103 $ 119,406 $ 165,383 
1. Includes gains or losses on changes in ownership interests of consolidated subsidiaries.
2. Includes changes in fair value of marketable securities, cash flow hedges, actuarial changes on pension plans and equity accounted other comprehensive income, net of 
associated income taxes.
    
Accumulated Other
Comprehensive Income (Loss)     
AS AT AND FOR THE YEAR 
ENDED DEC. 31, 2023
(MILLIONS)
Common
Share
Capital
Contributed
Surplus
Retained
Earnings
Ownership
Changes1
Revaluation
Surplus
Currency
Translation
Reserves 
and Other2
Total
Common
Equity
Preferred
Equity
Non-
controlling
Interests
Total
Equity
Balance as at 
December 31, 2022   ................ $ 10,901 $ 148 $ 18,006 $ 2,959 $ 9,522 $ (2,826) $ 898 $ 39,608 $ 4,145 $ 98,138 $ 141,891 
Net income   ..............................  —  —  1,130  —  —  —  —  1,130  —  3,975  5,105 
Other comprehensive income     .  —  —  —  —  11  271  521  803  —  2,927  3,730 
Comprehensive income   .........  —  —  1,130  —  11  271  521  1,933  —  6,902  8,835 
Shareholder distributions
Common equity   ....................  —  —  (436)  —  —  —  —  (436)  —  —  (436) 
Preferred equity  ....................  —  —  (166)  —  —  —  —  (166)  —  —  (166) 
Non-controlling interests     .....  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  (12,842)  (12,842) 
Other items
Repurchases, net of equity 
issuances      ...............................  (22)  (59)  (499)  —  —  —  —  (580)  (42)  27,226  26,604 
Share-based compensation   ...  —  23  (29)  —  —  —  —  (6)  —  —  (6) 
Ownership changes   ..............  —  —  —  1,551  (575)  78  267  1,321  —  3,041  4,362 
Total change in year  ..............  (22)  (36)  —  1,551  (564)  349  788  2,066  (42)  24,327  26,351 
Balance as at                             
December 31, 2023   ................ $ 10,879 $ 112 $ 18,006 $ 4,510 $ 8,958 $ (2,477) $ 1,686 $ 41,674 $ 4,103 $ 122,465 $ 168,242 
1. Includes gains or losses on changes in ownership interests of consolidated subsidiaries.
2. Includes changes in fair value of marketable securities, cash flow hedges, actuarial changes on pension plans, the impact of the adoption of IFRS 17 and equity 
accounted other comprehensive income, net of associated income taxes.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 149

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE PERIODS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) Note 2024 2023
Operating activities
Net income       ................................................................................................................................................ $ 1,853 $ 5,105 
Other income and gains   .............................................................................................................................  (1,247)  (6,501) 
Equity accounted earnings, net of distributions      ........................................................................................  (641)  (441) 
Fair value changes   .....................................................................................................................................  2,520  1,396 
Depreciation and amortization     .................................................................................................................. 23  9,737  9,075 
Deferred income taxes     ............................................................................................................................... 15  (341)  (897) 
(Proceeds from) Investments in residential inventory    ...............................................................................  (108)  152 
Net change in non-cash working capital balances   .....................................................................................  (4,204)  (1,422) 
 7,569  6,467 
Financing activities
Corporate borrowings arranged      .................................................................................................................  2,082  1,246 
Corporate borrowings repaid     .....................................................................................................................  (571)  (550) 
Commercial paper and bank borrowings, net   ............................................................................................  736  31 
Non-recourse borrowings arranged     ...........................................................................................................  109,844  83,620 
Non-recourse borrowings repaid    ...............................................................................................................  (84,288)  (71,328) 
Non-recourse credit facilities, net     .............................................................................................................  (24)  (3,558) 
Subsidiary equity obligations issued       .........................................................................................................  662  277 
Subsidiary equity obligations redeemed  ....................................................................................................  (14)  (456) 
Deposits from related parties   ..................................................................................................................... 27  1,471  173 
Deposits provided to related parties  .......................................................................................................... 27  (1,121)  (1,261) 
Capital provided by non-controlling interests    ...........................................................................................  13,444  29,401 
Capital repaid to non-controlling interests   ................................................................................................  (4,365)  (2,175) 
Repayment of lease liabilities  ....................................................................................................................  (1,564)  (969) 
Receipt (settlement) of deferred consideration ..........................................................................................  68  (483) 
Preferred equity redemptions     ....................................................................................................................  —  (22) 
Common shares issued      ..............................................................................................................................  19  49 
Common shares repurchased     .....................................................................................................................  (1,001)  (624) 
Distributions to non-controlling interests      ..................................................................................................  (7,815)  (12,842) 
Distributions to shareholders     .....................................................................................................................  (663)  (602) 
 26,900  19,927 
Investing activities
Acquisitions
Investment properties    ..............................................................................................................................  (11,141)  (8,213) 
Property, plant and equipment    ................................................................................................................  (11,172)  (8,069) 
Equity accounted investments     .................................................................................................................  (7,074)  (10,492) 
Financial assets and other   ........................................................................................................................  (11,405)  (51,887) 
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired    ....................................................................................  (6,453)  (12,922) 
Dispositions
Investment properties    ..............................................................................................................................  4,107  1,573 
Property, plant and equipment    ................................................................................................................  2,773  1,175 
Equity accounted investments     .................................................................................................................  1,087  3,258 
Financial assets and other   ........................................................................................................................  8,216  50,086 
Disposition of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed    ....................................................................................  1,049  5,688 
Restricted cash and deposits     ......................................................................................................................  49  41 
 (29,964)  (29,762) 
Cash and cash equivalents
Change in cash and cash equivalents    ........................................................................................................  4,505  (3,368) 
Net change in cash classified within assets held for sale     ..........................................................................  (215)  (11) 
Foreign exchange revaluation    ...................................................................................................................  (461)  205 
Balance, beginning of period .....................................................................................................................  11,222  14,396 
Balance, end of period    ............................................................................................................................... $ 15,051 $ 11,222 
Supplemental cash flow disclosures
Income taxes paid   ...................................................................................................................................... $ 2,674 $ 1,677 
Interest paid      ...............................................................................................................................................  14,289  13,902 
150 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
1. ORGANIZATION AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
Brookfield Corporation (the “Corporation”) is a leading global investment firm focused on building long-term wealth for 
institutions and individuals around the world. References in these financial statements to “Brookfield,” “us,” “we,” “our” or 
“the company” refer to the Corporation and its direct and indirect subsidiaries and consolidated entities. The Corporation is 
listed on the New York and Toronto stock exchanges (“NYSE” and “TSX”, respectively) under the symbol BN. The 
Corporation was formed by articles of amalgamation under the Business Corporations Act (Ontario) and is registered in 
Ontario, Canada. The registered office of the Corporation is Brookfield Place, 181 Bay Street, Suite 100, Toronto, Ontario, 
M5J 2T3.
Capital Management
The company utilizes the Corporation’s capital to manage the business in a number of ways, including operating performance, 
value creation, credit metrics and capital efficiency. The performance of the Corporation’s capital is closely tracked and 
monitored by the company’s key management personnel and evaluated relative to management’s objectives. The primary goal 
of the company is to earn a 15%+ return compounded over the long term while always maintaining excess capital to support 
ongoing operations.
The Corporation’s capital consists of the capital invested in its Asset Management business, including investments in entities 
that it manages, its Wealth Solutions business, its corporate investments that are held outside of managed entities, and its net 
working capital. The Corporation’s capital is funded with common equity, preferred equity and corporate borrowings issued by 
the Corporation. 
As at December 31, 2024, the Corporation’s capital totaled $60.4 billion (December 31, 2023 – $58.2 billion), and is computed 
as follows:
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Cash and cash equivalents     ......................................................................................................................... $ 820 $ 134 
Other financial assets   .................................................................................................................................  1,234  4,004 
Common equity in investments    .................................................................................................................  56,147  53,523 
Other assets and liabilities of the Corporation     ...........................................................................................  2,238  506 
Corporation’s Capital     ................................................................................................................................. $ 60,439 $ 58,167 
Corporation’s Capital is comprised of the following:
Common equity   ....................................................................................................................................... $ 41,874 $ 41,674 
Preferred equity     .......................................................................................................................................  4,103  4,103 
Non-controlling interest     ..........................................................................................................................  230  230 
Corporate borrowings     ..............................................................................................................................  14,232  12,160 
$ 60,439 $ 58,167 
The Corporation generates returns on its capital through management fees and performance revenues earned through its Asset 
Management business, distributable earnings from its Wealth Solutions business, distributions or dividends earned from its 
capital invested in managed entities, and through performance of the Corporation’s financial assets. Prudent levels of corporate 
borrowings and preferred equity are utilized to enhance returns to shareholders’ common equity. 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 151

A reconciliation of the Corporation’s capital to the company’s consolidated balance sheet as at December 31, 2024 is as 
follows:
AS AT DEC. 31, 2024
(MILLIONS)
The 
Corporation Investments Elimination1
Total 
Consolidated
Cash and cash equivalents     ............................................................. $ 820 $ 14,231 $ — $ 15,051 
Other financial assets    ....................................................................  1,234  24,653  —  25,887 
Accounts receivable and other1
   ......................................................  3,092  28,281  (1,155)  30,218 
Inventory    ........................................................................................  —  8,458  —  8,458 
Assets classified as held for sale    ....................................................  —  10,291  —  10,291 
Equity accounted investments  ........................................................  2,488  65,822  —  68,310 
Investment properties   .....................................................................  16  103,649  —  103,665 
Property, plant and equipment   .......................................................  113  152,906  —  153,019 
Intangible assets   .............................................................................  85  35,987  —  36,072 
Goodwill    ........................................................................................  —  35,730  —  35,730 
Deferred income tax assets     ............................................................  342  3,381  —  3,723 
Accounts payable and other1
   ..........................................................  (3,368)  (53,289)  1,155  (55,502) 
Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale    ..........  —  (4,721)  —  (4,721) 
Deferred income tax liabilities     .......................................................  (530)  (24,737)  —  (25,267) 
Subsidiary equity obligations   .........................................................  —  (4,759)  —  (4,759) 
Total    ...............................................................................................  4,292  395,883  —  400,175 
Common equity in investments2
    ....................................................  56,147 —  (56,147)  — 
Corporation’s Capital    ..................................................................  60,439  395,883  (56,147)  400,175 
Less:
Corporate borrowings     ..................................................................  14,232  —  —  14,232 
Non-recourse borrowings of managed entities    ............................  —  220,560  —  220,560 
Amounts attributable to preferred equity   ....................................  4,103  —  —  4,103 
Amounts attributable to non-controlling interests   .......................  230  119,176  —  119,406 
Common equity    ............................................................................ $ 41,874 $ 56,147 $ (56,147) $ 41,874 
1. Contains the gross up of intercompany balances, including accounts receivable and other, and accounts payable and other of $1.2 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, 
between entities within the Corporation and its investments.
2. Represents the carrying value of the Corporation’s investments. 
Common equity in investments is a measure routinely evaluated by our company’s key management personnel and represents 
the net equity in our consolidated financial statements outside of our Corporate Activities. This measure is equal to the sum of 
the common equity in our Asset Management, Wealth Solutions, Renewable Power and Transition, Infrastructure, Private 
Equity, and Real Estate operating segments.
152 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

A reconciliation of the Corporation’s capital to the company’s consolidated balance sheet as at December 31, 2023 is as 
follows:
AS AT DEC. 31, 2023
(MILLIONS)
The 
Corporation Investments Elimination1
Total 
Consolidated
Cash and cash equivalents     ............................................................. $ 134 $ 11,088 $ — $ 11,222 
Other financial assets    .................................................................... 4,004 24,320  —  28,324 
Accounts receivable and other1
   ...................................................... 1,191 27,836  (515)  28,512 
Inventory    ........................................................................................ — 11,412  —  11,412 
Assets classified as held for sale    .................................................... — 2,489  —  2,489 
Equity accounted investments  ........................................................ 2,081 57,043  —  59,124 
Investment properties   ..................................................................... 21 124,131  —  124,152 
Property, plant and equipment   ....................................................... 144 147,473  —  147,617 
Intangible assets   ............................................................................. 84 38,910  —  38,994 
Goodwill    ........................................................................................ — 34,911  —  34,911 
Deferred income tax assets     ............................................................ 489 2,849  —  3,338 
Accounts payable and other1
   ..........................................................  (3,383)  (56,025)  515  (58,893) 
Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale    ..........  —  (118)  —  (118) 
Deferred income tax liabilities     .......................................................  (117)  (24,870)  —  (24,987) 
Subsidiary equity obligations   .........................................................  (4)  (4,141)  —  (4,145) 
Total    ...............................................................................................  4,644  397,308  —  401,952 
Common equity in investments2
    .................................................... 53,523 —  (53,523)  — 
Corporation’s Capital    ..................................................................  58,167  397,308  (53,523)  401,952 
Less:
Corporate borrowings     ..................................................................  12,160  —  —  12,160 
Non-recourse borrowings of managed entities    ............................ — 221,550  —  221,550 
Amounts attributable to preferred equity   ....................................  4,103  —  —  4,103 
Amounts attributable to non-controlling interests   .......................  230  122,235  —  122,465 
Common equity    ............................................................................ $ 41,674 $ 53,523 $ (53,523) $ 41,674 
1. Contains the gross up of intercompany balances, including accounts receivable and other, and accounts payable and other of $515 million and $515 million, 
respectively, between entities within the Corporation and its investments.
2. Represents the carrying value of the Corporation’s investments.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 153

2. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION
a) Statement of Compliance
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS ® Accounting Standards as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”).
These consolidated financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors of the company on March 15, 2025.
b) Adoption of Accounting Standards
The company has applied new and revised standards issued by the IASB that are effective for the period beginning on or after 
January 1, 2024. The new standards were applied as follows:
i. Amendments to IAS 1 – Presentation of Financial Statements (“IAS 1”)
The amendments clarify how to classify debt and other liabilities as current or non-current. The company adopted the IAS 1 
amendments effective January 1, 2024 and reclassified $20.7 billion of non-recourse borrowings of managed entities in our 
Real Estate segment and our real estate LP Investments within our Asset Management segment from current to non-current as 
at December 31, 2023.
ii. International Tax Reform – Pillar Two Model Rules (Amendments to IAS 12)
The Corporation operates in countries, including Canada, which have enacted new legislation to implement the global 
minimum top-up tax, effective from January 1, 2024. The Corporation has applied a temporary mandatory relief from 
recognizing and disclosing deferred taxes in connection with the global minimum top-up tax and will account for it as a current 
tax when it is incurred. There is no material current tax impact for the year ended December 31, 2024 . The global minimum 
top-up tax is not anticipated to have a significant impact on the financial position of the Corporation.
c) Future Changes in Accounting Standards
Future changes to IFRS Accounting Standards are currently being evaluated, but are not expected to have material impacts on 
the Corporation.
d) Basis of Presentation
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis. 
i. Subsidiaries
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the company and its subsidiaries, which are the entities over 
which the company exercises control. Control exists when the company is able to exercise power over the investee, is exposed 
to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to use its power over the investee to affect the 
amount of its returns. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date control is obtained and continue to be consolidated until the 
date when control is lost. The company includes 100% of its subsidiaries’ revenues and expenses in the Consolidated 
Statements of Operations and 100% of its subsidiaries’ assets and liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, with non-
controlling interests in the equity of the company’s subsidiaries included within the company’s equity. All intercompany 
balances, transactions, unrealized gains and losses are eliminated in full.
The company continually reassesses whether or not it controls an investee, particularly if facts and circumstances indicate there 
is a change to one or more of the control criteria previously mentioned. In certain circumstances when the company has less 
than a majority of the voting rights of an investee, it has power over the investee when the voting rights are sufficient to give it 
the practical ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee unilaterally. The company considers all relevant facts and 
circumstances in assessing whether or not the company’s voting rights are sufficient to give it control of an investee.
Certain of the company’s subsidiaries are subject to profit sharing arrangements, such as carried interest, between the company 
and the non-controlling equity holders, whereby the company is entitled to a participation in profits, as determined under the 
agreements. The attribution of net income amongst equity holders in these subsidiaries reflects the impact of these profit-
sharing arrangements when the attribution of profits as determined in the agreement is no longer subject to adjustment based on 
future events and correspondingly reduces non-controlling interests’ attributable share of those profits.
Gains or losses resulting from changes in the company’s ownership interest of a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control 
are accounted for as equity transactions and are recorded within ownership changes as a component of equity. When we 
dispose of all or part of a subsidiary resulting in a loss of control, the difference between the carrying value of what is sold and 
the proceeds from disposition is recognized within other income and gains in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
154 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

Refer to Note 2(r) for an explanation of the company’s accounting policy for business combinations and to Note 4 for 
additional information on subsidiaries of the company with significant non-controlling interests.
ii. Associates and Joint Ventures
Associates are entities over which the company exercises significant influence. Significant influence is the power to participate 
in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but without control or joint control over those policies. Joint 
ventures are joint arrangements whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have the rights to the net assets 
of the joint arrangement. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control over an arrangement, which exists only 
when decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. The company accounts 
for associates and joint ventures using the equity method of accounting within equity accounted investments on the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Interests in associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method are initially recognized at cost. At the time of 
initial recognition, if the cost of the associate or joint venture is lower than the proportionate share of the investment’s 
underlying fair value, the company records a gain on the difference between the cost and the underlying fair value of the 
investment in net income. If the cost of the associate or joint venture is greater than the company’s proportionate share of the 
underlying fair value, goodwill relating to the associate or joint venture is included in the carrying amount of the investment. 
Subsequent to initial recognition, the carrying value of the company’s interest in an associate or joint venture is adjusted for the 
company’s share of direct comprehensive income and distributions of the investee. Profit and losses resulting from the sale of a 
business to an associate or joint venture are recognized in full in the consolidated financial statements. Profit and losses 
resulting from all other transactions with an associate or joint venture that do not constitute the sale of a business are 
recognized in the consolidated financial statements based on the interests of unrelated investors in the investee. The carrying 
value of associates or joint ventures is assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date. Impairment losses on 
equity accounted investments may be subsequently reversed in net income. Further information on the impairment of long-
lived assets is available in Note 2(m).
iii. Joint Operations
A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets, 
and obligations for the liabilities, related to the arrangement. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an 
arrangement that exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous consent of parties sharing control. 
The company recognizes only its assets, liabilities and share of the results of operations of the joint operation. The assets, 
liabilities and results of joint operations are included within the respective line items of the Consolidated Balance Sheets, 
Consolidated Statements of Operations and Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.
e)  Foreign Currency Translation
The U.S. dollar is the functional and presentation currency of the company. Each of the company’s subsidiaries, associates, 
joint ventures and joint operations determines its own functional currency and items included in the consolidated financial 
statements of each subsidiary, associate, joint venture and joint operation are measured using that functional currency.
Assets and liabilities of foreign operations having a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar are translated at the rate of 
exchange prevailing at the reporting date and revenues and expenses at average rates during the period. Gains or losses on 
translation are accumulated as a component of equity. On the disposal of a foreign operation, or the loss of control, joint control 
or significant influence, the component of accumulated other comprehensive income relating to that foreign operation is 
reclassified to net income. Gains or losses on foreign currency-denominated balances and transactions that are designated as 
hedges of net investments in these operations are reported in the same manner.
Foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities of the company are translated using the rate of exchange 
prevailing at the reporting date, and non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value are translated at the rate of 
exchange prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. Revenues and expenses are measured at average rates 
during the period. Gains or losses on translation of these items are included in net income. Gains or losses on transactions that 
hedge these items are also included in net income. Foreign currency denominated non-monetary assets and liabilities, measured 
at historic cost, are translated at the rate of exchange at the transaction date.
f) Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, demand deposits and highly liquid short-term investments with original 
maturities of three months or less.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 155

g)  Related Party Transactions
In the normal course of operations, the company enters into various transactions on market terms with related parties. The 
majority of transactions with related parties are between consolidated entities and eliminate on consolidation. The company and 
its subsidiaries may also transact with entities over which the company has significant influence or joint control. Amounts 
owed to and by associates and joint ventures are not eliminated on consolidation. The company’s subsidiaries with significant 
non-controlling interests are described in Note 4 and its associates and joint ventures are described in Note 10.
In addition to our subsidiaries and equity accounted investments, we consider key management personnel, the Board of 
Directors and material shareholders to be related parties. See Note 27 for additional details.
h) Operating Assets
i. Investment Properties
The company uses the fair value method to account for real estate classified as investment properties. A property is determined 
to be an investment property when it is principally held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation, or both. 
Investment properties also include properties that are under development or redevelopment for future use as investment 
property. Investment properties are initially measured at cost including transaction costs, or at fair value if acquired in a 
business combination. Subsequent to initial recognition, investment properties are carried at fair value. Gains or losses arising 
from changes in fair value are included in net income during the period in which they arise.
Fair values are completed by undertaking one of two accepted approaches: (i) discounting the expected future cash flows, 
generally over a term of 10 years including a terminal value based on the application of a capitalization rate to estimated year 
11 cash flows, typically used for our office, retail and logistics assets; or (ii) undertaking a direct capitalization approach for 
certain of our LP investments and directly held multifamily assets whereby a capitalization rate is applied to estimated current 
year cash flows. The future cash flows of each property are based upon, among other things, rental income from current leases 
and assumptions about rental income from future leases reflecting current conditions, less future cash outflows relating to such 
current and future leases.
Commercial developments are also measured using a discounted cash flow model, net of costs to complete, as of the balance 
sheet date. Development sites in the planning phases are measured using comparable market values for similar assets.
ii. Property, Plant and Equipment
The company uses the revaluation method of accounting for certain classes of property, plant and equipment (“PP&E”) as well 
as certain assets which are under development for future use as PP&E. PP&E measured using the revaluation method is initially 
measured at cost, or at fair value if acquired in a business combination, and subsequently carried at its revalued amount, being 
the fair value at the date of the revaluation less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment 
losses. Revaluations are performed on an annual basis at the end of each fiscal year, commencing in the first year subsequent to 
the date of acquisition, unless there is an indication that assets are impaired. Where the carrying amount of an asset increases as 
a result of a revaluation, the increase is recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity in revaluation 
surplus, unless the increase reverses a previously recognized revaluation loss recorded through net income, in which case that 
portion of the increase is recognized in net income.
Where the carrying amount of an asset decreases, the decrease is recognized in other comprehensive income to the extent there 
is any balance existing in revaluation surplus in respect of the asset, with the remainder of the decrease recognized in net 
income. Depreciation of an asset commences when it is available for use. On loss of control or partial disposition of an asset 
measured using the revaluation method, all accumulated revaluation surplus or the portion disposed of, respectively, is 
transferred into retained earnings or ownership changes, respectively.
PP&E held in our Private Equity segment, which include right-of-use (“ROU”) assets, are measured at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. Land is carried at cost whereas finite-life assets such as buildings and 
equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. Depreciation is 
calculated on a systematic basis over the assets’ useful life.
Depreciation methods and useful lives are reassessed at least annually regardless of the measurement method used. 
Renewable Power and Transition
Renewable Power and Transition generally determines the fair value of its PP&E by using a 20-year discounted cash flow 
model for hydroelectric assets and the estimated remaining useful life for other technologies. This model incorporates future 
cash flows from long-term power purchase agreements that are in place where it is determined that the power purchase 
156 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

agreements are linked specifically to the related power generating assets. The model also includes estimates of future electricity 
prices, anticipated long-term average generation, estimated operating and capital expenditures, terminal values and assumptions 
about future inflation rates and discount rates by geographical location.
Depreciation on renewable power assets is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated service lives of the assets, 
which are as follows: 
(YEARS) Useful Lives
Dams .........................................................................................................................................................................      Up to 115
Penstocks     .................................................................................................................................................................. Up to 100
Powerhouses ............................................................................................................................................................. Up to 115
Hydroelectric generating units  .................................................................................................................................. Up to 115
Wind generating units    ............................................................................................................................................... Up to 35
Solar generating units  ............................................................................................................................................... Up to 35
Gas-fired cogenerating (“Cogeneration”) units     ........................................................................................................ Up to 40
Battery energy storage systems    ................................................................................................................................ Up to 20
Other assets    ............................................................................................................................................................... Up to 60
Costs are allocated to the significant components of power generating assets and each component is depreciated separately. 
The depreciation of PP&E in our Brazilian Renewable Power and Transition operations is based on the duration of 
the authorization or the useful life of a concession asset. The weighted-average remaining duration as at December 31, 2024 is 
30 years (2023 – 34 years). Land rights are included as part of the concession or authorization and are subject to depreciation.
Infrastructure 
Utilities, transport, midstream and data assets within our Infrastructure segment as well as assets under development classified 
as PP&E on the Consolidated Balance Sheet are accounted for using the revaluation method. The company determines the fair 
value of its utilities, transport, midstream and data assets using both the discounted cash flow and depreciated replacement cost 
methods, which include estimates of forecasted revenue, operating costs, maintenance and other capital expenditures. 
Valuations are performed internally on an annual basis. Discount rates are selected for each asset, giving consideration to the 
volatility and geography of its revenue streams.
Depreciation on utilities, transport, midstream and data assets is calculated on a straight-line or declining balance basis over the 
estimated service lives of the components of the assets, which are as follows: 
(YEARS) Useful Lives
Buildings     .................................................................................................................................................................. Up to 60
Transmission stations, towers and related fixtures    ................................................................................................... Up to 50
Leasehold improvements   .......................................................................................................................................... Up to 50
Plant and equipment    ................................................................................................................................................. Up to 50
Network systems ....................................................................................................................................................... Up to 80
Track    ......................................................................................................................................................................... Up to 40
Intermodal containers     ............................................................................................................................................... Up to 20
Pipelines and gas storage assets ................................................................................................................................ Up to 80
Public service concessions that provide the right to charge users for a service in which the service and fee is regulated by the 
grantor are accounted for as intangible assets. 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 157

Private Equity
The company accounts for its Private Equity PP&E using the cost model. Costs include expenditures that are directly 
attributable to the acquisition of the asset. Depreciation of an asset commences when it is available for use. PP&E is 
depreciated for each component of the following asset classes as follows:
(YEARS, UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED) Useful Lives
Buildings  ................................................................................................................................................................... Up to 50
Right-of-use assets    .................................................................................................................................................... Up to 40 
Machinery and equipment    ........................................................................................................................................ Up to 25
Vessels    ...................................................................................................................................................................... Up to 35
Oil and gas related equipment and mining property  ................................................................................................. Units of production
Real Estate and Other
Hospitality operating assets are classified as PP&E and are accounted for using the revaluation method. The company 
determines the fair value for these assets by using a depreciated replacement cost method based on the age, physical condition 
and the construction costs of the assets.
Depreciation on hospitality assets is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each component of the 
asset as follows: 
(YEARS) Useful Lives
Building and building improvements    ....................................................................................................................... 1 to 60+
Land improvements  .................................................................................................................................................. 15
Furniture, fixtures and equipment   ............................................................................................................................ 1 to 20
iii. Inventory
Private Equity
Fuel inventories relate to our road fuels operation, which was sold during the third quarter of 2024. Prior to disposal, fuel 
inventories within our Private Equity segment were traded in active markets and were purchased with the view to resell in the 
near future, generating a profit from fluctuations in prices or margins. As a result, fuel inventories were carried at market value 
by reference to prices in a quoted active market, in accordance with the commodity broker-trader exemption granted by IAS 2, 
Inventories. Changes in fair value less costs to sell are recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations through direct 
costs. Products and chemicals used in the production of biofuels are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value.
Real Estate 
Develop-for-sale multifamily projects, residential development lots, homes and residential condominium projects are recorded 
in inventory. Residential development lots are recorded at the lower of cost, which includes pre-development expenditures and 
capitalized borrowing costs and net realizable value, which the company determines as the estimated selling price of the 
inventory in the ordinary course of business in its completed state, less estimated expenses, including holding costs, costs to 
complete and costs to sell. 
i) Fair Value Measurement 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between 
market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another 
valuation technique. In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the company takes into account the characteristics of 
the asset or liability if market participants would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at the 
measurement date. 
158 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

Fair value measurement is disaggregated into three hierarchical levels: Level 1, 2 or 3. Fair value hierarchical levels are directly 
based on the degree to which the inputs to the fair value measurement are observable. The levels are as follows: 
Level 1: Inputs are unadjusted, quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities at the measurement date. 
Level 2: Inputs (other than quoted prices included in Level 1) are either directly or indirectly observable for the asset or 
liability through correlation with market data at the measurement date and for the duration of the asset or liability’s 
anticipated life. 
Level 3: Inputs are unobservable and reflect management’s best estimate of what market participants would use in pricing the 
asset or liability at the measurement date. Consideration is given to the risk inherent in the valuation technique and 
the risk inherent in the inputs in determining the estimate. 
Refer to the investment properties and revaluation of PP&E accounting policies for the approach taken to determine the fair 
value of these operating assets.
Further information on fair value measurements is available in Notes 6, 11 and 12. 
j) Accounts Receivable 
Trade receivables are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest 
method, less an allowance for expected credit losses for uncollectibility. 
k) Intangible Assets 
Finite life intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortization and any accumulated impairment losses and 
are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Amortization is recorded within direct costs in the 
Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
Certain of the company’s intangible assets have an indefinite life as there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the 
asset is expected to generate cash flows. Indefinite life intangible assets are recorded at cost unless an impairment is identified 
which requires a write-down to its recoverable amount. 
Indefinite life intangible assets are evaluated for impairment annually or more often if events or circumstances indicate there 
may be an impairment. Any impairment of the company’s indefinite life intangible assets is recorded in net income in the 
period in which the impairment is identified. Impairment losses on intangible assets may be subsequently reversed in net 
income. 
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal 
proceeds, if any, and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in other 
income and gains when the asset is derecognized.
Infrastructure
Intangible assets within our Infrastructure segment primarily consist of conservancy rights, service concession arrangements, 
customer order backlogs, track access rights, operating network agreements and customer contracts and relationships. 
Concession arrangements, accounted for as intangible assets under IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements (“IFRIC 12”), 
were mostly acquired through acquisitions of gas transmission, electricity transmission and toll road businesses and are 
amortized on a straight-line basis over the term of the arrangement.
The intangible assets at the Brazilian regulated gas transmission operation and Brazilian electricity transmission operation 
relate to concession contracts. For our Brazilian regulated gas transmission operation, the concession arrangement provides the 
operation with the right to operate the asset perpetually. As a result, the intangible asset is amortized over its estimated useful 
life. For our Brazilian electricity transmission operation, the intangible asset is amortized on a straight-line basis over the life of 
the contractual arrangement. 
Refer to Note 13 for additional information on these concession arrangements.
The intangible assets at our residential infrastructure operation are comprised of contractual customer relationships, customer 
contracts, proprietary technology and brands. The contractual customer relationships and customer contracts represent ongoing 
economic benefits from leasing customers and annuity-based management agreements. Proprietary technology is recognized 
for the development of new metering technology, which allows the business to generate revenue through its sub-metering 
business. Brands represent the intrinsic value customers place on the operation’s various brand names.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 159

Private Equity
Our Private Equity segment includes intangible assets across a number of operating companies. The majority are finite life 
intangible assets that are amortized on a straight-line basis over the following useful lives:
(YEARS) Useful Lives
Water and sewage concession agreements    ............................................................................................................... Up to 50
Brands and trademarks     ............................................................................................................................................. Up to 40
Computer software     ................................................................................................................................................... Up to 10
Customer relationships    ............................................................................................................................................. Up to 20
Proprietary technology     ............................................................................................................................................. Up to 15
Real Estate
Intangible assets in our Real Estate segment are primarily of trademarks and licensing agreements. Subsequent to initial 
recognition, intangible assets with a finite life are measured at cost less accumulated amortization and impairment losses. 
Amortization is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the intangible asset and is recognized in net 
income for the respective reporting period. Indefinite life intangible assets are recorded at cost unless an impairment is 
identified which requires a write-down to its recoverable amount.
l) Goodwill 
Goodwill represents the excess of the price paid for the acquisition of an entity over the fair value of the net identifiable 
tangible and intangible assets and liabilities acquired. Goodwill is allocated to the cash-generating unit to which it relates. The 
company identifies cash-generating units as identifiable groups of assets that generate cash inflows that are largely independent 
of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Goodwill is evaluated for impairment annually or more often if events or circumstances indicate there may be an impairment. 
Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing if the carrying value of a cash-generating unit, including the allocated 
goodwill, exceeds its recoverable amount determined as the greater of the estimated fair value less costs to sell and the value in 
use. Impairment losses recognized in respect of a cash-generating unit are first allocated to the carrying value of goodwill and 
any excess is allocated to the carrying amount of assets in the cash-generating unit. Any goodwill impairment is recorded in 
income in the period in which the impairment is identified. Impairment losses on goodwill are not subsequently reversed. On 
disposal of a subsidiary, any attributable amount of goodwill is included in determination of the gain or loss on disposal. 
m) Impairment of Long-Lived Assets 
At each balance sheet date or more often if events or circumstances indicate there may be impairment, the company assesses 
whether its assets, other than those measured at fair value with changes in value recorded in net income, have any indication of 
impairment. An impairment is recognized if the recoverable amount, determined as the higher of the estimated fair value less 
costs of disposal and the discounted future cash flows generated from use and eventual disposal from an asset or cash-
generating unit, is less than their carrying value. Impairment losses are recorded as fair value changes within the Consolidated 
Statements of Operations. The projections of future cash flows take into account the relevant operating plans and 
management’s best estimate of the most probable set of conditions anticipated to prevail. Where an impairment loss 
subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the lesser of the revised estimate 
of its recoverable amount and the carrying amount that would have been recorded had no impairment loss been 
recognized previously. 
n) Subsidiary Equity Obligations 
Subsidiary equity obligations include subsidiary preferred equity units, subsidiary preferred shares and capital securities as well 
as limited-life funds and redeemable fund units. 
Subsidiary preferred equity units and capital securities are preferred shares that may be settled by a variable number of 
common equity units upon their conversion by the holders or the company. These instruments, as well as the related accrued 
distributions, are classified as liabilities at amortized cost on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Dividends or yield distributions 
on these instruments are recorded as interest expense. To the extent conversion features are not closely related to the underlying 
liability the instruments are bifurcated into debt and equity components. 
Limited-life funds represent the interests of others in the company’s consolidated funds that have a defined maximum fixed life 
where the company has an obligation to distribute the residual interests of the fund to fund partners based on their proportionate 
share of the fund’s equity in the form of cash or other financial assets at cessation of the fund’s life. 
160 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

Redeemable fund units represent interests of others in consolidated subsidiaries that have a redemption feature that requires the 
company to deliver cash or other financial assets to the holders of the units upon receiving a redemption notice. 
Limited-life funds and redeemable fund units are classified as liabilities and recorded at fair value within subsidiary equity 
obligations on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes in fair value are recorded in net income in the period of the change. 
o) Revenue from Contracts with Customers 
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“IFRS 15”), specifies how and when revenue should be recognized and 
requires disclosures about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenues and cash flows arising from customer 
contracts. 
Where available, the company has elected the practical expedient available under IFRS 15 for measuring progress toward 
complete satisfaction of performance obligation and for disclosure requirements of remaining performance obligations. This 
permits the company to recognize revenue in the amount to which we have the right to invoice such that the company has a 
right to the consideration in an amount that corresponds directly with the value to the customer for performance completed to 
date.
Revenue Recognition Policies by Segment
Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer and excludes amounts collected on 
behalf of third parties. A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service (or a bundle of 
goods and services) to the customer and is the unit of account in IFRS 15. A contract’s transaction price is allocated to each 
distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue, as, or when, the performance obligation is satisfied. The company 
recognizes revenue when it transfers control of a product or service to a customer. 
The company recognizes revenue from the following major sources: 
Asset Management
The company’s primary asset management revenue streams, which include base management fees, incentive fees (including 
incentive distributions and performance fees) and realized carried interest, are satisfied over time. A significant portion of our 
asset management revenue is inter-segment in nature and thus eliminated on consolidation; that which survives is recorded as 
revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The company earns base management fees in accordance with contractual arrangements with our long-term private funds, 
perpetual strategies and liquid securities’ investment vehicles. Fees are typically equal to a percentage of fee-bearing capital 
within the respective fund or entity and are accrued quarterly. These fees are earned over the period of time that the 
management services are provided and are allocated to the distinct services provided by the company during the reporting 
period.
Incentive distributions and performance fees are incentive payments to reward the company for meeting or exceeding certain 
performance thresholds of managed entities. Incentive distributions, paid to us by certain of our perpetual affiliates, are 
determined by contractual arrangements and represent a portion of distributions paid by the perpetual affiliates above a 
predetermined hurdle. They are accrued as revenue on the respective affiliates’ distribution record dates if that hurdle has been 
achieved. Brookfield Business Partners L.P. (“BBU”) pays performance fees if the growth in its unit price exceeds a 
predetermined threshold, with the unit price based on the quarterly volume-weighted average price of publicly traded units. 
These fees are accrued on a quarterly basis subject to the performance of the respective listed vehicle.
Carried interest is a performance fee arrangement in which we receive a percentage of investment returns, generated within a 
private fund on carry eligible capital, based on a contractual formula. We are eligible to earn carried interest from a fund once 
returns exceed the fund’s contractually defined performance hurdles at which point we earn an accelerated percentage of the 
additional fund profit until we have earned the percentage of total fund profit, net of fees and expenses, to which we are 
entitled. We recognize this carried interest when a fund’s cumulative returns are in excess of preferred returns and when it 
is highly probable that a significant reversal will not occur, which are generally met when an underlying fund investment is 
profitably disposed of. Typically carried interest is not recognized as revenue until the fund is near the end of its life.
Renewable Power and Transition
The majority of revenue is derived from the sale of power and power related ancillary services both under contract and in the 
open market, sourced from their own power generating facilities. Revenue is recorded based on the output delivered and 
capacity provided at rates specified under contract terms or at prevailing market rates if the sale is uncontracted. Performance 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 161

obligations are satisfied over time as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes benefits as we deliver electricity and 
related products. 
We also sell power and related products under bundled arrangements. Energy, capacity and renewable credits within power 
purchase agreements (“PPA”) are considered to be distinct performance obligations. A contract’s transaction price is allocated 
to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue over time as the performance obligation is satisfied. The sale 
of energy and capacity are distinct goods that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer as measured by 
the output method. Renewable credits are performance obligations satisfied at a point in time. Measurement of satisfaction and 
transfer of control to the customer of renewable credits in a bundled arrangement coincides with the pattern of revenue 
recognition of the underlying energy generation.
Infrastructure
Our infrastructure revenue is predominantly recognized over time as services are rendered. Performance obligations are 
satisfied based on actual usage or throughput depending on the terms of the arrangement. Contract progress is determined using 
a cost-to-cost input method. Any upfront payments that are separable from the recurring revenue are recognized over time for 
the period the services are provided.
Private Equity
Revenue from our Private Equity segment primarily consists of: (i) sale of goods or products which is recognized as revenue 
when the product is shipped and title passes to the customer; (ii) the provision of services which are recognized as revenue over 
the period of time that they are provided; and (iii) leasing and other product offerings which is recognized under the 
requirements of IFRS 16, Leases (“IFRS 16”), whereas the other revenue streams are recognized under IFRS 15.
Revenue recognized over a period of time is determined using the cost-to-cost input method to measure progress towards 
complete satisfaction of the performance obligations as the work performed on the contracts creates or enhances an asset that is 
controlled by the customer. As work is performed, a contract asset in the form of contracts-in-progress is recognized, which 
is reclassified to accounts receivable when invoiced to the customer. If payment is received in advance of work being 
completed, a contract liability is recognized. Variable consideration, such as claims, incentives and variations resulting from 
contract modifications, is only recognized in the transaction price to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant 
reversal in the amount of revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is 
subsequently resolved.
Real Estate
Revenue from hospitality operations is generated by providing accommodation, food and beverage and leisure facilities to hotel 
guests. Revenue from accommodation is recognized over the period that the guest stays at the hotel; food and beverage revenue 
as well as revenue from leisure activities is recognized when goods and services are provided.
Real estate rental income is recognized in accordance with IFRS 16. As the company retains substantially all the risks and 
benefits of ownership of its investment properties, it accounts for leases with its tenants as operating leases and begins 
recognizing revenue when the tenant has a right to use the leased asset. The total amount of contractual rent to be received from 
operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease; a straight-line or free rent receivable, as 
applicable, is recorded as a component of investment property representing the difference between rental revenue recorded and 
the contractual amount received. Percentage participating rents are recognized when tenants’ specified sales targets have been 
met.
Revenue from residential land sales, sales of homes and the completion of residential condominium projects is recognized at 
the point in time when our performance obligations are met. Performance obligations are satisfied when we transfer title of a 
product to a customer and all material conditions of the sales contract have been met. If title of a property transfers but material 
future development is required, revenue will be delayed until the point in time at which the remaining performance obligations 
are satisfied.
Corporate Activities
Dividend and interest income from other financial assets are recognized as revenue when declared or on an accrual basis using 
the effective interest method, in accordance with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (“IFRS 9”).
Interest revenue from loans and notes receivable, less a provision for uncollectible amounts, is recorded on the accrual basis 
using the effective interest method, in accordance with IFRS 9.
162 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

p) Financial Instruments 
Classification of Financial Instruments
The company classifies its financial assets as fair value through profit and loss (“FVTPL”), fair value through other 
comprehensive income (“FVTOCI”) and amortized cost according to the company’s business objectives for managing the 
financial assets and based on the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset. The company classifies its financial 
liabilities as amortized cost or FVTPL. 
• Financial instruments that are not held for the sole purpose of collecting contractual cash flows are classified as FVTPL 
and are initially recognized at their fair value and are subsequently measured at fair value at each reporting date. Gains and 
losses recorded on each revaluation date are recognized within profit or loss. Transaction costs of financial assets classified 
as FVTPL are expensed in profit or loss.
• Financial assets classified as FVTOCI are initially recognized at their fair value and are subsequently measured at fair 
value at each reporting date. The change in fair value is recorded in other comprehensive income. The cumulative gains or 
losses related to FVTOCI equity instruments are not reclassified to profit or loss on disposal. The cumulative gains or 
losses on all other FVTOCI assets are reclassified to profit or loss on disposal when there is a significant or prolonged 
decline in fair value or when the company acquires a controlling or significant interest in the underlying investment and 
commences equity accounting or consolidating the investment. The cumulative gains or losses on all FVTOCI liabilities 
are reclassified to profit or loss on disposal.
• Financial instruments that are held for the purpose of collecting contractual cash flows that are solely payments of 
principal and interest are classified as amortized cost and are initially recognized at their fair value and are subsequently 
measured at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method. Transaction costs of financial instruments classified as 
amortized cost are capitalized and amortized in profit or loss on the same basis as the financial instrument.
Expected credit losses associated with debt instruments carried at amortized cost and FVTOCI are assessed on a forward-
looking basis. The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk 
since initial recognition. Impairment charges are recognized in profit or loss based on the expected credit loss model.
The following table presents the types of financial instruments held by the company within each financial instrument 
classification:
Financial Instrument Type Measurement
Financial Assets
Cash and cash equivalents Amortized cost
Other financial assets
Government bonds FVTOCI
Corporate bonds FVTPL, FVTOCI, Amortized cost
Fixed income securities and other FVTPL, FVTOCI, Amortized cost
Common shares and warrants FVTPL, FVTOCI
Loan and notes receivable FVTPL, Amortized cost
Accounts receivable and other1 FVTPL, Amortized cost
Financial Liabilities
Corporate borrowings Amortized cost
Non-recourse borrowings of managed entities
Property-specific borrowings Amortized cost
Subsidiary borrowings Amortized cost
Accounts payable and other1 FVTPL, Amortized cost
Subsidiary equity obligations FVTPL, Amortized cost
1. Includes derivative instruments.
Other Financial Assets
Other financial assets are recognized on their trade date and initially recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recorded 
in net income or other comprehensive income in accordance with their classification. Fair values of financial instruments are 
determined by reference to quoted bid or ask prices, as appropriate. Where bid and ask prices are unavailable, the closing price 
of the most recent transaction of that instrument is used. 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 163

Other financial assets also include loans and notes receivable which are recorded initially at fair value and, with the exception 
of loans and notes receivable designated as FVTPL, are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest 
method, less any applicable provision for impairment. A provision for impairment is established when there is objective 
evidence that the company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Loans 
and receivables designated as FVTPL are recorded at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded in net income in the period 
in which they arise.
Allowance for Credit Losses
For financial assets classified as amortized cost or debt instruments as FVTOCI and undrawn loan commitments, at each 
reporting period, the company assesses if there has been a significant increase in credit risk since the asset was originated to 
determine if a 12-month expected credit loss or a life-time expected credit loss should be recorded regardless of whether there 
has been an actual loss event. The company uses probability-weighted loss scenarios which consider multiple loss scenarios 
based on reasonable and supportable forecasts in order to calculate the expected credit losses. 
The company assesses the carrying value of FVTOCI and amortized cost securities for impairment when there is objective 
evidence that the asset is impaired such as when an asset is in default. Impaired financial assets continue to record life-time 
expected credit losses; however interest revenue is calculated based on the net amortized carrying amount after deducting the 
loss allowance. When objective evidence of impairment exists, l osses arising from impairment are reclassified from 
accumulated other comprehensive income to net income.
Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedge Accounting 
The company selectively utilizes derivative financial instruments primarily to manage financial risks, including interest rate, 
commodity and foreign exchange risks. Derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value within the company’s 
consolidated financial statements. Hedge accounting is applied when the derivative is designated as a hedge of a specific 
exposure and there is assurance that it will continue to be effective as a hedge based on an expectation of offsetting cash flows 
or fair values. Hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively when the derivative no longer qualifies as a hedge or the 
hedging relationship is terminated. Once discontinued, the cumulative change in fair value of a derivative that was previously 
recorded in other comprehensive income by the application of hedge accounting is recognized in net income over the remaining 
term of the original hedging relationship. The assets or liabilities relating to unrealized mark-to-market gains and losses on 
derivative financial instruments are recorded in accounts receivable and other or accounts payable and other, respectively. 
Items Classified as Hedges 
Realized and unrealized gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts designated as hedges of currency risks relating to a net 
investment in a subsidiary or an associate are included in equity. Gains or losses are reclassified into net income in the period in 
which the subsidiary or associate is disposed of or to the extent that the hedges are ineffective. Where a subsidiary is partially 
disposed, and control is retained, any associated gains or costs are reclassified within equity as ownership changes. Derivative 
financial instruments that are designated as hedges to offset corresponding changes in the fair value of assets and liabilities and 
cash flows are measured at their estimated fair value with changes in fair value recorded in net income or as a component of 
equity, as applicable. Unrealized gains and losses on interest rate contracts designated as hedges of future variable interest 
payments are included in equity as a cash flow hedge when the interest rate risk relates to an anticipated variable 
interest payment. The periodic exchanges of payments on interest rate swap contracts designated as hedges of debt are recorded 
on an accrual basis as an adjustment to interest expense. The periodic exchanges of payments on interest rate contracts 
designated as hedges of future interest payments are amortized into net income over the term of the corresponding interest 
payments. Unrealized gains and losses on electricity contracts designated as cash flow hedges of future power generation 
revenue are included in equity as a cash flow hedge. The periodic exchanges of payments on power generation commodity 
swap contracts designated as hedges are recorded on a settlement basis as an adjustment to power generation revenue.
Items Not Classified as Hedges 
Derivative financial instruments that are not designated as hedges are carried at their estimated fair value, and gains and losses 
arising from changes in fair value are recognized in net income in the period in which the change occurs. Realized and 
unrealized gains and losses on equity derivatives used to offset changes in share prices in respect of vested deferred share units 
and restricted share units are recorded together with the corresponding compensation expense. Realized and unrealized gains on 
other derivatives not designated as hedges are recorded in revenues, direct costs or corporate costs, as applicable. Realized and 
unrealized gains and losses on derivatives which are considered economic hedges, and where hedge accounting is not able to be 
elected, are recorded in fair value changes in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
164 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

q) Income Taxes 
Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be paid to tax authorities, net of recoveries, 
based on the tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Current and deferred income tax 
relating to items recognized directly in equity are also recognized in equity. Deferred income tax liabilities are provided for 
using the liability method on temporary differences between the tax bases and carrying amounts of assets and liabilities. 
Deferred income tax assets are recognized for all deductible temporary differences and for the carry forward of unused tax 
credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that deductions, tax credits and tax losses can be utilized. The 
carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent it is no longer 
probable that the income tax assets will be recovered. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using the tax rates 
that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realized or the liability settled, based on the tax rates and laws that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 
r) Business Combinations 
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of a business acquisition is measured at the 
aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments 
issued in exchange for control of the acquiree. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are 
recognized at their fair values at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets that are classified as held for sale which 
are recognized and measured at fair value less costs to sell. The interest of non-controlling shareholders in the acquiree is 
initially measured at the non-controlling shareholders’ proportion of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and 
contingent liabilities recognized. 
To the extent the fair value of consideration paid exceeds the fair value of the net identifiable tangible and intangible assets, the 
excess is recorded as goodwill. To the extent the fair value of consideration paid is less than the fair value of net identifiable 
tangible and intangible assets, the excess is recognized in net income. 
When a business combination is achieved in stages, previously held interests in the acquired entity are re-measured to fair value 
at the acquisition date, which is the date control is obtained, and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognized in net income, 
other than amounts transferred directly to retained earnings. Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the 
acquisition date that have previously been recognized in other comprehensive income are reclassified to net income. 
Transaction costs are recorded as an expense within fair value changes in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
s) Leases
The company accounts for leases under IFRS 16. Under IFRS 16, the company must assess whether a contract is, or contains, a 
lease at inception of the contract. A contract is, or contains, a lease if it conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset 
for a period of time in exchange for consideration. Control exists if a customer can make the important decisions governing the 
use of an asset specified in a contract similar to decisions made over assets owned by the business. The company has elected to 
not allocate contract consideration between lease and non-lease components, but rather account for each lease and non-lease 
component as a single lease component. This election is made by asset class.
For lessors, a lease shall be classified as either a finance or operating lease on commencement of the lease contract. If the 
contract represents a finance lease in which the risk and rewards of ownership have transferred to the lessee, a lessor shall 
recognize a finance lease receivable at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease discounted using the interest rate 
implicit in the lease. Subsequently, finance income is recognized at a constant rate on the net investment of the finance lease. 
Lease payments received from operating leases are recognized into income on a straight-line or other systematic basis.
For lessees, the company recognizes a right-of-use asset and lease liability at the lease commencement date. The ROU asset is 
initially measured based on the calculated lease liability plus initial direct costs incurred by the lessee, estimates to dismantle 
and restore the underlying asset at the end of the lease term and lease payments made net of incentives received at or before the 
lease commencement date. It is classified as either investment in PP&E, or inventory depending on the nature of the asset and 
is subsequently accounted for consistently with owned assets within the respective asset classes with the exception of PP&E. 
Unlike most of the company’s owned assets within PP&E, lease assets classified within PP&E are subsequently measured 
applying the cost method rather than the revaluation method. The ROU asset is depreciated applying a straight-line method or 
other systematic basis over the shorter of the useful life of the underlying asset or the term of the lease. Lease contracts often 
include an option to extend the term of the lease and such extensions are factored into the lease term if the company is 
reasonably certain to exercise that option. ROU assets are tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36,  Impairment of 
Assets. Refer to Note 2(h) for additional details of our accounting policies governing investment properties, PP&E and 
inventory.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 165

Lease liabilities are classified within accounts payable and other and are recognized at the commencement of the lease, initially 
measured at the present value of future lease payments not paid as at the commencement date, discounted using the interest rate 
implicit in the lease, or the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate if the implicit rate cannot be readily determined. Lease 
liabilities are subsequently measured at amortized cost by applying the effective interest method. Lease liabilities are 
remeasured if there is reassessment of the timing or amount of future lease payments arising from a change in an index or rate, 
revisions to estimates of the lease term or residual value guarantee, or a change in the assessment of an option to purchase the 
underlying asset. Such remeasurements of the lease liability are generally recognized as an adjustment to the ROU asset unless 
further reduction in the measurement of the lease liability would reduce a ROU asset below zero, in which case it is recorded in 
the Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
Variable rents that do not depend on an index or rate are not included in the measurement of the lease liability and the ROU 
asset. The related payments are recognized as an expense in the period in which the event or condition that triggers those 
payments occurs and are classified within direct costs in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
We are applying certain practical expedients as permitted by the standard; specifically, we have elected to apply practical 
expedients associated with short-term and low-value leases that allow the company to record operating expenses on such leases 
on a straight-line basis without having to capitalize the lease arrangement. 
We have also applied a number of critical judgments in applying this standard, including: i) identifying whether a contract (or 
part of a contract) includes a lease; ii) determining whether it is reasonably certain that lease extension or termination options 
will be exercised in determining the lease term; and iii) determining whether variable payments are in-substance fixed. Critical 
estimates used in the application of IFRS 16 include estimating the lease term and determining the appropriate rate at which to 
discount the lease payments.
t)    Other Items 
i. Capitalized Costs 
Capitalized costs related to assets under development and redevelopment include all eligible expenditures incurred in 
connection with the acquisition, development and construction of the asset until it is available for its intended use. These 
expenditures consist of costs that are directly attributable to these assets.
Borrowing costs are capitalized when such costs are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a 
qualifying asset. A qualifying asset is an asset that takes a substantial period of time to prepare for its intended use. 
ii. Share-based Payments 
The company issues share-based awards to certain employees and non-employee directors. The cost of equity-settled share-
based transactions, comprised of share options, restricted shares and escrowed shares, is determined as the fair value of the 
award on the grant date using a fair value model. The cost of equity-settled share-based transactions is recognized as each 
tranche vests and is recorded in contributed surplus as a component of equity. The cost of cash-settled share-based transactions, 
comprised of Deferred Share Units (“DSUs”), is measured as the fair value at the grant date, and expensed on a proportionate 
basis consistent with the vesting features over the vesting period with the recognition of a corresponding liability. The liability 
is recorded as a provision within accounts payable and other on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and measured at each 
reporting date at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income. 
The company’s Restricted Share Unit (“RSU”)  program was terminated during the first quarter of 2024. Prior to termination, 
RSUs were  measured as the fair value at the grant date, and expensed on a proportionate basis consistent with the vesting 
features over the vesting period. The liability was recorded as a provision within accounts payable and other on the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets and measured at each reporting date at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net 
income. 
iii. Provisions 
A provision is a liability of uncertain timing that is recognized when the company has a present obligation as a result of a past 
event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of 
the amount of the obligation. The company’s significant provisions consist of pensions and other long-term and post-
employment benefits, warranties on some products or services, obligations to retire or decommission tangible long-lived assets 
and the cost of legal claims arising in the normal course of operations. 
166 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

a. Pensions and Other Post-Employment Benefits 
The company offers pension and other post-employment benefit plans to employees of certain of its subsidiaries, with certain 
of these subsidiaries offering defined benefit plans. Defined benefit pension expenses, which include the current year’s service 
cost, are included in direct costs. For each defined benefit plan, we recognize the present value of our defined benefit 
obligations less the fair value of the plan assets as a defined benefit liability reported within accounts payable and other on the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets. The company’s obligations under its defined benefit pension plans are determined periodically 
through the preparation of actuarial valuations.
b. Other Long-Term Incentive Plans 
The company provides long-term incentive plans to certain employees whereby the company allocates a portion of the amounts 
realized through subsidiary profit-sharing agreements to its employees. The cost of these plans is recognized over the requisite 
service period, provided it is probable that the vesting conditions will be achieved, based on the underlying subsidiary profit 
sharing arrangement. The liability is recorded within accounts payable and other and measured at each reporting date with the 
corresponding expense recognized in direct costs in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
c. Warranties, Asset Retirement, Legal and Other 
Certain consolidated entities offer warranties on the sale of products or services. A provision is recorded to provide for future 
warranty costs based on management’s best estimate of probable warranty claims. 
Certain consolidated entities have legal obligations to retire tangible long-lived assets. A provision is recorded at each reporting 
date to provide for the estimated fair value of the asset retirement obligation upon decommissioning of the asset period. 
In the normal course of operations, the company may become involved in legal proceedings. Management analyzes information 
about these legal matters and provides provisions for probable contingent losses, including estimated legal expenses to resolve 
the matters. Internal and external legal counsel are used in order to estimate the probability of an unfavorable outcome and the 
amount of loss. 
iv. Government Assistance
Government grants and other government assistance received by consolidated subsidiaries are recognized when there is 
reasonable assurance that the assistance will be received and the partnership will comply with all relevant conditions. The 
company recognizes government grants in the Consolidated Statements of Operations on a systematic basis over the periods in 
which the company recognizes expenses for which the grants were provided.
u) Critical Estimates and Judgments
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carried amounts 
of certain assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and 
expenses recorded during the period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 
In making estimates and judgments, management relies on external information and observable conditions, where possible, 
supplemented by internal analysis as required. These estimates and judgments have been applied in a manner consistent with 
prior periods and there are no known trends, commitments, events or uncertainties that the company believes will materially 
affect the methodology or assumptions utilized in making estimates and judgments in these consolidated financial statements. 
i. Critical Estimates 
The significant estimates used in determining the recorded amount for assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial 
statements include the following:
a. Investment Properties 
The critical assumptions and estimates used when determining the fair value of commercial properties are: discount rates and 
terminal capitalization rates for properties valued using a discounted cash flow model and capitalization rates for properties 
valued using a direct capitalization approach. Management also uses assumptions and estimates in determining expected future 
cash flows in discounted cash flow models and stabilized net operating income used in values determined using the direct 
capitalization approach. Properties under development are recorded at fair value using a discounted cash flow model which 
includes estimates in respect of the timing and cost to complete the development. 
Further information on investment property estimates on fair value is provided in Note 11. 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 167

b. Revaluation Method for Property, Plant and Equipment 
When determining the carrying value of PP&E using the revaluation method, the company uses the following critical 
assumptions and estimates: the timing of forecasted revenues; future sales prices and associated expenses; future sales volumes; 
future regulatory rates; maintenance and other capital expenditures; discount rates; terminal capitalization rates; terminal 
valuation dates; useful lives; and residual values. Determination of the fair value of PP&E under development includes 
estimates in respect of the timing and cost to complete the development. 
Further information on estimates used in the revaluation method for PP&E is provided in Note 12. 
c. Financial Instruments 
Estimates and assumptions used in determining the fair value of financial instruments are: equity and commodity prices; future 
interest rates; the credit worthiness of the company relative to its counterparties; the credit risk of the company’s counterparties; 
estimated future cash flows; the amount of the liability and equity components of compound financial instruments; discount 
rates and volatility utilized in option valuations. 
Further information on estimates used in determining the carrying value of financial instruments is provided in Notes 6 and 25. 
d. Inventory 
The company estimates the net realizable value of its inventory using estimates and assumptions about future development 
costs, costs to hold and future selling costs. 
e. Other 
Other estimates and assumptions utilized in the preparation of the company’s consolidated financial statements are: the 
assessment or determination of net recoverable amount; oil and gas reserves; depreciation and amortization rates and useful 
lives; estimation of recoverable amounts of cash-generating units for impairment assessments of goodwill and intangible assets; 
ability to utilize tax losses and other tax measurements; fair value of assets held as collateral and the percentage of completion 
for construction contracts. 
ii. Critical Judgments 
Management is required to make critical judgments when applying its accounting policies. The following judgments have the 
most significant effect on the consolidated financial statements:
a. Control or Level of Influence 
When determining the appropriate basis of accounting for the company’s investees, the company makes judgments about the 
degree of influence that it has the ability to exert directly or through an arrangement over the investees’ relevant activities. This 
may include the ability to elect investee directors or appoint management. Control is obtained when the company has the power 
to direct the relevant investing, financing and operating decisions of an entity and does so in its capacity as principal of the 
operations, rather than as an agent for other investors. Operating as a principal includes having sufficient capital at risk in any 
investee and exposure to the variability of the returns generated as a result of the decisions of the company as principal. 
Judgment is used in determining the sufficiency of the capital at risk or variability of returns. In making these judgments, the 
company considers the ability of other investors to remove the company as a manager or general partner in a controlled 
partnership. 
b. Investment Properties 
When applying the company’s accounting policy for investment properties, judgment is applied in determining whether certain 
costs are additions to the carrying amount of the property and, for properties under development, identifying the point at which 
practical completion of the property occurs and identifying the directly attributable borrowing costs to be included in the 
carrying value of the development property. 
c. Property, Plant and Equipment 
The company’s accounting policy for its PP&E requires critical judgments over the assessment of carrying value, whether 
certain costs are additions to the carrying amount of the PP&E as opposed to repairs and maintenance, and for assets under 
development. the identification of when the asset is capable of being used as intended and identifying the directly attributable 
borrowing costs to be included in the asset’s carrying value. 
168 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

For assets that are measured using the revaluation method, judgment is required when estimating future prices, volumes, 
discount and capitalization rates. Judgment is applied when determining future electricity prices considering broker quotes for 
the years in which there is a liquid market available and, for the subsequent years, our best estimate of electricity prices from 
renewable sources that would allow new entrants into the market. 
d. Identifying Performance Obligations for Revenue Recognition 
Management is required to identify performance obligations relating to contracts with customers at the inception of each 
contract. IFRS 15 requires a contract’s transaction price to be allocated to each distinct performance obligation and 
subsequently recognized into income when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied. Judgment is used when assessing the 
pattern of delivery of the product or service to determine if revenue should be recognized at a point in time or over time. For 
certain service contracts recognized over time, judgment is required to determine if revenue from variable consideration such as 
incentives, claims and variations from contract modifications has met the required probability threshold to be recognized.
Management also uses judgment to determine whether contracts for the sale of products and services have distinct performance 
obligations that should be accounted for separately or as a single performance obligation. Goods and services are considered 
distinct if: (1) a customer can benefit from the good or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily 
available to the customer; and (2) the entity’s promise to transfer the good or service to the customer is separately identifiable 
from other promises in the contract.
Additional details about revenue recognition policies across our operating segments are included in Note 2(o) of the 
consolidated financial statements.
e. Common Control Transactions 
The purchase and sale of businesses or subsidiaries between entities under common control are not specifically addressed in 
IFRS Accounting Standards and accordingly, management uses judgment when determining a policy to account for such 
transactions taking into consideration other guidance in the IFRS framework and pronouncements of other standard-setting 
bodies. The company’s policy is to record assets and liabilities recognized as a result of transfers of businesses or subsidiaries 
between entities under common control at carrying value. Differences between the carrying amount of the consideration given 
or received and the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities transferred are recorded directly in equity. 
f. Indicators of Impairment 
Judgment is applied when determining whether indicators of impairment exist when assessing the carrying values of the 
company’s assets, including: the determination of the company’s ability to hold financial assets; the estimation of a cash-
generating unit’s future revenues and direct costs; the determination of discount and capitalization rates; and when an asset’s 
carrying value is above the value derived using publicly traded prices which are quoted in a liquid market. 
g. Income Taxes 
The company makes judgments when determining the future tax rates applicable to subsidiaries and identifying the temporary 
differences that relate to each subsidiary. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are 
expected to apply during the period when the assets are realized or the liabilities settled, using the tax rates and laws enacted or 
substantively enacted at the consolidated balance sheet dates. The company measures deferred income taxes associated with its 
investment properties based on its specific intention with respect to each asset at the end of the reporting period. Where the 
company has a specific intention to sell a property in the foreseeable future, deferred taxes on the building portion of an 
investment property are measured based on the tax consequences that would follow the disposition of the property. Otherwise, 
deferred taxes are measured on the basis the carrying value of the investment property will be recovered substantially through 
use.
h. Classification of Non-Controlling Interests in Limited-Life Funds 
Non-controlling interests in limited-life funds are classified as liabilities (subsidiary equity obligations) or equity (non-
controlling interests) depending on whether an obligation exists to distribute residual net assets to non-controlling interests on 
liquidation in the form of cash or another financial asset or assets delivered in kind. Judgment is required to determine what the 
governing documents of each entity require or permit. 
i. Other 
Other critical judgments include the determination of effectiveness of financial hedges for accounting purposes; the likelihood 
and timing of anticipated transactions for hedge accounting; and the determination of functional currency.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 169

3. SEGMENTED INFORMATION
a) Operating Segments 
Our operations are organized into six business groups in addition to our corporate activities, which collectively represent seven 
operating segments for internal and external reporting purposes. Our operating segments are as follows:
The Corporation:
i. Corporate Activities include the investment of cash and financial assets, as well as the management of our corporate 
leverage, including corporate borrowings and preferred equity, which fund a portion of the capital invested in our other 
operations. Certain corporate costs such as technology and operations are incurred on behalf of our operating segments and 
allocated to each operating segment based on an internal pricing framework.
Asset Management:
i. The Asset Management business includes managing long-term private funds, perpetual strategies and liquid strategies on 
behalf of our investors and ourselves. We generate contractual base management fees for these activities as well as 
incentive distributions and performance income, including performance fees, transaction fees and carried interest. We also 
include the discretionary capital that we invest directly into and alongside private funds managed by BAM and other 
investments within the results of our Asset Management business. These investments include flagship real estate private 
funds that are managed by BAM with long-term track records of earning strong returns, as well as capital invested in other 
real estate, private equity, opportunistic and other credit funds managed by BAM, and other investments.
Wealth Solutions:
i. The Wealth Solutions  business includes our equity accounted interest in Brookfield Wealth Solutions Ltd. (“BWS”, 
previously known as “Brookfield Reinsurance”), a wealth solutions provider focused on securing the financial futures of 
individuals and institutions through a range of retirement services, wealth protection products and tailored capital 
solutions.
Operating Businesses:
i. The Renewable Power and Transition business includes the ownership, operation and development of hydroelectric, wind, 
utility-scale solar power generating assets, distributed energy, and sustainable solutions. 
ii. The Infrastructure business includes the ownership, operation and development of utilities, transport, midstream, and data 
assets. 
iii. The Private Equity business includes a broad range of industries, and is mostly focused on ownership and operations in the 
business services and industrials sectors.
iv. The Real Estate business includes the ownership, operation and development of core and transitional and development 
investments (including residential development properties). 
b) Segment Financial Measures
For our Asset Management and Wealth Solutions segments, we primarily measure operating performance using distributable 
earnings (“DE”). Net operating income (“NOI”) is the key performance metric for our Real Estate segment, and Funds from 
Operations (“FFO”) is used for our other operating segments. We also provide the amount of capital invested by the 
Corporation in each segment using common equity.
These metrics are used by our Chief Operating Decision Maker in assessing operating results and the performance of our 
businesses on a segmented basis. 
Our segment financial measures are defined as follows:
i. Distributable Earnings
DE from our Asset Management segment is defined as the earnings received by the Corporation that are available for 
distribution to common shareholders or to be reinvested in the business. It is calculated as the sum of distributable earnings 
from our Asset Management business and realized carried interest, net of equity-based compensation costs. DE from our Asset 
Management segment includes fees, net of the associated costs, that we earn from managing capital in our perpetual affiliates, 
private funds and liquid strategies accounts. We are also eligible to earn incentive payments in the form of incentive 
distributions, performance fees or carried interest. Our Asset Management segment distributes substantially all of its 
distributable earnings as a dividend to its shareholders; therefore, DE represents our profitability from our Asset Management 
segment. We do not use DE as a measure of cash generated from our operations.
170 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

Distributable earnings from our Wealth Solutions business is equivalent to its distributable operating earnings (“DOE”), which 
is calculated as our share of equity accounted net income from our Wealth Solutions business, excluding the impact of 
depreciation and amortization, deferred income taxes, net income from our equity accounted investments, mark-to-market on 
investments and derivatives, breakage and transaction costs, and is inclusive of our proportionate share of DOE from 
investments in associates.
ii. Net Operating Income
NOI from our Real Estate segment is defined as: i) property-specific revenues from our commercial properties operations less 
direct commercial property expenses before the impact of depreciation and amortization; and ii) revenues from our hospitality 
operations less direct hospitality expenses before the impact of depreciation and amortization. NOI represents an income-
generating property’s profitability before adding costs from financing or taxes, and is a strong indication of our Real Estate 
business’ ability to impact the operating performance of its properties through proactive management and leasing. Depreciation 
and capital expenditures are excluded from NOI as we believe that the value of most of our properties typically increases over 
time, provided we make the necessary maintenance expenditures, the timing and magnitude of which may differ from the 
amount of depreciation recorded in any given period. We do not use NOI as a measure of cash generated from our operations.
iii. Funds from Operations
We define FFO from our Corporate Activities segment and our Operating Businesses, excluding the Real Estate business which 
uses NOI as its key performance metric, as net income excluding fair value changes, depreciation and amortization and 
deferred income taxes, net of non-controlling interests. When determining FFO, we include our proportionate share of the FFO 
from equity accounted investments on a fully diluted basis. FFO also includes realized disposition gains and losses, which are 
gains or losses arising from transactions during the reporting period, adjusted to include associated fair value changes and 
revaluation surplus recorded in prior periods, taxes payable or receivable in connection with those transactions and amounts 
that are recorded directly in equity, such as ownership changes. 
FFO represents the company’s share of revenues less costs incurred within our operations, which include interest expenses and 
other costs. Specifically, it includes the impact of contracts that we enter into to generate revenues, including power sales 
agreements, contracts that our operating businesses enter into such as leases and take or pay contracts and sales of inventory. 
FFO includes the impact of changes in leverage or the cost of that financial leverage and other costs incurred to operate our 
business. 
We use realized disposition gains and losses within FFO in order to provide additional insight regarding the performance 
of investments on a cumulative realized basis, including any unrealized fair value adjustments that were recorded in equity and 
not otherwise reflected in current period FFO, and believe it is useful to investors to better understand variances between 
reporting periods. We exclude depreciation and amortization from FFO as we believe that the value of most of our assets 
typically increases over time, provided we make the necessary maintenance expenditures, the timing and magnitude of which 
may differ from the amount of depreciation recorded in any given period. In addition, the depreciated cost base of our assets is 
reflected in the ultimate realized disposition gain or loss on disposal. As noted above, unrealized fair value changes 
are excluded from FFO until the period in which the asset is sold. We also exclude deferred income taxes from FFO 
because the vast majority of the company’s deferred income tax assets and liabilities are a result of the revaluation of our assets 
under IFRS Accounting Standards.
Our definition of FFO differs from the definition used by other organizations, as well as the definition of FFO used by the Real 
Property Association of Canada (“REALPAC”) and the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, Inc. 
(“NAREIT”), in part because the NAREIT definition is based on U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“U.S. 
GAAP”), as opposed to IFRS Accounting Standards. The key differences between our definition of FFO and the determination 
of FFO by REALPAC and/or NAREIT are that we include the following: realized disposition gains or losses and cash taxes 
payable or receivable on those gains or losses, if any; foreign exchange gains or losses on monetary items not forming part of 
our net investment in foreign operations; and foreign exchange gains or losses on the sale of an investment in a foreign 
operation. We do not use FFO as a measure of cash generated from our operations. 
We illustrate how we reconcile the financial measure for each operating segment to net income in Note 3(c)(ii) and (iii) of the 
consolidated financial statements. 
Segment Balance Sheet Information
We use common equity by segment as our measure of segment assets because it is utilized by our Chief  Operating Decision 
Maker for capital allocation decisions.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 171

Segment Allocation and Measurement
Segment measures include amounts earned from consolidated entities that are eliminated on consolidation. The principal 
adjustment is to include asset management revenues charged to consolidated entities as revenues within the company’s Asset 
Management segment with the corresponding expenses recorded as corporate costs within the relevant segment. These amounts 
are based on the in-place terms of the asset management contracts between the consolidated entities. Inter-segment revenues are 
determined under terms that approximate market value.
The company allocates the costs of shared functions that would otherwise be included within its Corporate Activities segment, 
such as information technology and internal audit, pursuant to formal policies. 
c) Reportable Segment Measures
AS AT AND FOR THE YEAR 
ENDED DEC. 31, 2024
(MILLIONS)
Asset 
Management
Wealth 
Solutions2,3
Renewable 
Power and 
Transition Infrastructure
Private 
Equity3 Real Estate
Corporate
Activities
Total
Segments Note
External revenues  .......................... $ 10,043 n/a $ 6,485 $ 21,525 $ 41,321 $ 6,156 $ 476 $ 86,006 
Inter-segment and other revenues1
      4,577 n/a  4  5  80  62  (176)  4,552 i
Segmented revenues    ......................  14,620 n/a  6,489  21,530  41,401  6,218  300  90,558 
DE     .................................................  3,094  1,350 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a ii
FFO1
    .............................................. n/a n/a  470  567  951 n/a  271 n/a ii
NOI     ................................................ n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a  3,397 n/a n/a ii
Common Equity  ............................  17,338  10,872  4,485  2,202  1,879  23,085  (17,987)  41,874 
1. We equity account for our investment in Oaktree and include our share of the FFO at 73%. For segment reporting, Oaktree’s revenue is shown on a 100% basis. For the 
year ended December 31, 2024, $1.9 billion of Oaktree’s revenue was included in our Asset Management segment revenue.
2. We equity account for our investment in BWS, and as such do not generate consolidated external or inter-segment revenues.
3. In the fourth quarter of 2024, our Wealth Solutions business acquired a $1 billion economic interest in BBU from the Corporation in exchange for newly-issued BWS 
Class C shares. On a combined basis with our Wealth Solutions business, we hold a 66% ownership interest in BBU, 41% being directly held by the Corporation.
AS AT AND FOR THE YEAR 
ENDED DEC. 31, 2023
(MILLIONS)
Asset 
Management
Wealth 
Solutions2
Renewable 
Power and 
Transition Infrastructure
Private 
Equity Real Estate
Corporate
Activities
Total
Segments Note
External revenues  .......................... $ 10,219 n/a $ 5,310 $ 18,234 $ 55,683 $ 6,169 $ 309 $ 95,924 
Inter-segment and other revenues1
      4,820 n/a  —  6  56  35  32  4,949 i
Segmented revenues    ......................  15,039 n/a  5,310  18,240  55,739  6,204  341  100,873 
DE     .................................................  3,135  740 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a ii
FFO1
    .............................................. n/a n/a  418  653  1,876 n/a  (463) n/a ii
NOI3    .............................................. n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a  3,490 n/a n/a ii
Common Equity  ............................  19,484  6,144  4,887  2,537  3,291  22,413  (17,082)  41,674 
1. We equity account for our investment in Oaktree and include our share of the FFO at 68%. For segment reporting, Oaktree’s revenue is shown on a 100% basis. For 
year ended December 31, 2023, $1.7 billion of Oaktree’s revenue was included in our Asset Management segment revenue.
2. We equity account for our investment in BWS, and as such do not generate consolidated external or inter-segment revenues. 
3. For comparability, we have excluded property management and development fees of $126 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 as they are no longer 
recognized in NOI.
i. Inter-Segment Revenues
For the year ended December 31, 2024, the adjustment to external revenues when determining segmented revenues primarily 
consists of asset management revenues earned from consolidated entities and asset management revenues earned by Oaktree 
totaling $4.6 billion (2023 – $4.8 billion) and revenues earned on construction projects between consolidated entities totaling 
$109 million (2023 – $89 million), which were eliminated on consolidation to arrive at the company’s consolidated revenues.
172 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

ii. Reconciliation of Net Income to Segment Measures of Profit or Loss
The following table reconciles net income to the total of the segments’ measures of profit or loss.
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) Note 2024 2023
Net income   ........................................................................................................................................ $ 1,853 $ 5,105 
Add/(Deduct):  ...................................................................................................................................
Equity accounted fair value changes and other non-FFO items     ....................................................  2,679  2,902 
Fair value changes    .........................................................................................................................  2,520  1,396 
Depreciation and amortization  .......................................................................................................  9,737  9,075 
Deferred income taxes     ...................................................................................................................  (341)  (897) 
Realized disposition gains in fair value changes or equity    ............................................................ iii  1,223  634 
Non-controlling interests on above items      ......................................................................................  (11,567)  (12,550) 
Real Estate segment disposition gains   ..........................................................................................  98  (256) 
Real Estate segment adjustments and other, net1
   ...........................................................................  3,898  4,440 
Total segments’ measures of profit or loss2
  ...................................................................................... $ 10,100 $ 9,849 
1. Primarily comprised of Real Estate segment interest expense and corporate costs, net of investment income and other, net of non-controlling interests, as well as 
development costs on early stage projects in our Renewable Power and Transition segment.
2. Comprised of DE from our Asset Management and Wealth Solutions segments, FFO from our Renewable Power and Transition, Infrastructure, Private Equity, and 
Corporate Activities segments, and NOI from our Real Estate segment.
iii. Realized Disposition Gains 
Realized disposition gains include gains and losses recorded in net income arising from transactions during the current period, 
adjusted to include fair value changes and revaluation surplus recorded in prior periods in connection with the assets sold. 
Realized disposition gains also include amounts that are recorded directly in equity as changes in ownership, as opposed to net 
income, because they result from a change in ownership of an entity which was consolidated before and after the respective 
transaction.
d) Geographic Allocation
The company’s revenues by location are as follows:
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
U.S.   ....................................................................................................................................................... $ 26,134 $ 28,257 
U.K.    .......................................................................................................................................................  15,676  23,432 
Canada ...................................................................................................................................................  8,865  10,036 
Australia    ................................................................................................................................................  6,683  6,079 
Brazil   .....................................................................................................................................................  5,233  5,778 
India   ......................................................................................................................................................  3,926  2,983 
Colombia   ...............................................................................................................................................  2,752  2,373 
Germany   ................................................................................................................................................  2,311  2,192 
Other Europe  .........................................................................................................................................  8,809  9,501 
Other Asia  .............................................................................................................................................  3,112  2,992 
Other    .....................................................................................................................................................  2,505  2,301 
$ 86,006 $ 95,924 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 173

The company’s consolidated assets by location are as follows:
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
U.S.   ....................................................................................................................................................... $ 210,633 $ 211,947 
Canada ...................................................................................................................................................  48,663  50,899 
U.K.    .......................................................................................................................................................  34,657  36,289 
Australia    ................................................................................................................................................  29,281  27,599 
India   ......................................................................................................................................................  27,458  23,093 
Brazil   .....................................................................................................................................................  23,113  29,306 
Colombia   ...............................................................................................................................................  15,643  13,344 
Germany   ................................................................................................................................................  10,967  15,636 
Other Europe  .........................................................................................................................................  47,018  45,583 
Other Asia  .............................................................................................................................................  20,339  21,149 
Other    .....................................................................................................................................................  22,652  15,250 
$ 490,424 $ 490,095 
174 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

4. SUBSIDIARIES 
The following table presents the details of the company’s subsidiaries with significant non-controlling interests: 
Jurisdiction of Formation
Ownership Interest Held by 
Non-Controlling Interests1, 2
AS AT DEC. 31 2024 2023
Brookfield Asset Management ULC (“BAM”)      ..................................... British Columbia  26.8%  25.0% 
Brookfield Renewable Partners L.P. (“BEP”)3
    ...................................... Bermuda  54.4%  54.6% 
Brookfield Infrastructure Partners L.P. (“BIP”)4
    ................................... Bermuda  73.9%  73.9% 
Brookfield Business Partners L.P. (“BBU”)5
    ......................................... Bermuda  59.0%  34.5% 
1. Control and associated voting rights of the limited partnerships (BEP, BIP and BBU) reside with their respective general partners which are subsidiaries of the 
company. The company’s general partner interest is entitled to earn base management fees and incentive payments in the form of incentive distribution rights or 
performance fees.
2. The company’s ownership interest in BEP, BIP and BBU includes a combination of redemption-exchange units (“REUs”), Class A limited partnership units, special 
limited partnership units, general partnership units and units or shares that are exchangeable for units in our listed partnerships, in each subsidiary, where applicable. 
Each of BEP, BIP and BBU’s partnership capital includes its Class A limited partnership units whereas REUs and general partnership units are considered non-
controlling interests for the respective partnerships. REUs share the same economic attributes in all respects except for the redemption right attached thereto. The REUs 
and general partnership units participate in earnings and distributions on a per unit basis equivalent to the per unit participation of the Class A limited partnership units 
 of the subsidiary.
3. Ownership interest held by non-controlling interests represents the combined units not held in BEP and Brookfield Renewable Corporation (“BEPC”).
4. Ownership interest held by non-controlling interests represents the combined units not held in BIP and Brookfield Infrastructure Corporation (“BIPC”).
5. Ownership interest held by non-controlling interests represents the combined units not held in BBU and Brookfield Business Corporation (“BBUC”). In the fourth 
quarter of 2024, our Wealth Solutions business acquired a $1 billion economic interest in BBU from the Corporation. On a combined basis with our Wealth Solutions 
business, we hold a 66% ownership interest in BBU, 41% being directly held by the Corporation.
The table below presents the exchanges on which the company’s subsidiaries with significant non-controlling interests were 
publicly listed as of December 31, 2024: 
NYSE TSX
BEP..................................................................................................................................................................... BEP BEP.UN
BIP   ...................................................................................................................................................................... BIP BIP.UN
BBU   .................................................................................................................................................................... BBU BBU.UN
The following table outlines the composition of non-controlling interests presented within the company’s consolidated balance 
sheet: 
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
BAM   .................................................................................................................................................................. $ 2,269 $ 2,247 
BEP    ....................................................................................................................................................................  32,635  25,677 
BIP      .....................................................................................................................................................................  27,651  31,479 
BBU      ...................................................................................................................................................................  15,429  15,241 
BPG1
   ..................................................................................................................................................................  25,725  35,314 
Individually immaterial subsidiaries with non-controlling interests      .................................................................  15,697  12,507 
$ 119,406 $ 122,465 
1. This balance represents non-controlling interests within the consolidated funds of Brookfield Properties Group (“BPG”). 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 175

All publicly listed subsidiaries are subject to independent governance. Accordingly, the company has no direct access to the 
assets of these subsidiaries. Summarized financial information with respect to the company’s subsidiaries with significant non-
controlling interests is set out below. The summarized financial information represents amounts before intra-group 
eliminations: 
BAM BEP BIP BBU BPG
AS AT AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31                                               
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Current assets     ................................................................................... $ 2,520 $ 5,455 $ 8,835 $ 4,610 $ 9,607 $ 7,979 $ 15,339 $ 14,885 $ 14,675 $ 14,950 
Non-current assets     ............................................................................  9,402  6,973  85,974  71,518  94,983  92,805  60,135  67,500  139,569  168,744 
Current liabilities    ..............................................................................  (1,935)  (2,302)  (14,565)  (8,038)  (10,903)  (11,705)  (12,166)  (14,355)  (30,034)  (49,286) 
Non-current liabilities    .......................................................................  (1,576)  (1,096)  (43,788)  (38,111)  (63,834)  (55,063)  (46,000)  (49,498)  (67,992)  (68,538) 
Non-controlling interests   ..................................................................  (2,269)  (2,247)  (32,635)  (25,677)  (27,651)  (31,479)  (15,429)  (15,241)  (25,725)  (35,314) 
Equity attributable to Brookfield    ...................................................... $ 6,142 $ 6,783 $ 3,821 $ 4,302 $ 2,202 $ 2,537 $ 1,879 $ 3,291 $ 30,493 $ 30,556 
Revenues      .......................................................................................... $ 3,798 $ 3,569 $ 5,876 $ 5,038 $ 21,039 $ 17,931 $ 40,620 $ 55,068 $ 14,600 $ 15,034 
Net income (loss) attributable to: 
Non-controlling interests      ............................................................. $ 486 $ 433 $ 261 $ 684 $ 1,676 $ 1,391 $ 808 $ 2,865 $ (860) $ (551) 
Shareholders    .................................................................................  1,343  1,269  (270)  (68)  7  57  87  912  (1,053)  (1,033) 
$ 1,829 $ 1,702 $ (9) $ 616 $ 1,683 $ 1,448 $ 895 $ 3,777 $ (1,913) $ (1,584) 
Other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to:
Non-controlling interests      ............................................................. $ (2) $ 4 $ 2,967 $ 1,400 $ 216 $ 778 $ (779) $ 258 $ (166) $ 459 
Shareholders    .................................................................................  (4)  11  390  20  45  101  (153)  30  (439)  420 
$ (6) $ 15 $ 3,357 $ 1,420 $ 261 $ 879 $ (932) $ 288 $ (605) $ 879 
The summarized cash flows of the company’s subsidiaries with significant non-controlling interests are as follows: 
BAM BEP BIP BBU BPG
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31                          
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Cash flows from (used in):
Operating activities    ....................................................................... $ 1,863 $ 1,439 $ 1,274 $ 1,865 $ 4,653 $ 4,078 $ 3,280 $ 2,130 $ 826 $ (786) 
Financing activities     .......................................................................  (1,995)  (475)  7,649  2,596  2,612  9,419  (504)  (4,371)  5,456  4,135 
Investing activities    ........................................................................  (2,119)  (1,842)  (6,800)  (4,356)  (6,901)  (12,990)  (2,327)  2,537  (6,260)  (6,556) 
Distributions paid to non-controlling interests in common equity      .... $ 653 $ 526 $ 447 $ 503 $ 949 $ 868 $ 22 $ 19 $ — $ — 
176 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

5. ACQUISITIONS OF CONSOLIDATED ENTITIES
a) Completed During 2024 
The following table summarizes the balance sheet impact as a result of business combinations that occurred in the year ended 
December 31, 2024. The valuations of the assets acquired are still under evaluation and as such the business combinations have 
been accounted for on a provisional basis:
AS AT DEC. 31, 2024
(MILLIONS)
Renewable 
Power and 
Transition Infrastructure 
Private Equity 
and Other Total 
Cash and cash equivalents   ......................................................... $ 553 $ 393 $ 4 $ 950 
Accounts receivable and other     ..................................................  443  283  50  776 
Other financial assets   ................................................................  345  294  10  649 
Assets classified as held for sale   ...............................................  861  270  —  1,131 
Property, plant and equipment     ..................................................  7,439  4,141  77  11,657 
Intangible assets     ........................................................................  —  1,580  52  1,632 
Goodwill    ....................................................................................  3,556  294  49  3,899 
Deferred income tax assets  ........................................................  60  —  —  60 
Total assets  13,257  7,255  242  20,754 
Less:
Accounts payable and other      ..................................................  (1,137)  (2,677)  (41)  (3,855) 
Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale   ..  (340)  (70)  —  (410) 
Non-recourse borrowings   ......................................................  (4,736)  (478)  (14)  (5,228) 
Deferred income tax liabilities  ..............................................  (437)  (454)  (10)  (901) 
Non-controlling interests1
     .....................................................  (3,015)  —  (4)  (3,019) 
 (9,665)  (3,679)  (69)  (13,413) 
Net assets acquired2
  ................................................................... $ 3,592 $ 3,576 $ 173 $ 7,341 
1. Includes non-controlling interests recognized on business combinations measured as the proportionate share of fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities on the 
date of acquisition.
2. Net assets acquired is typically equal to total consideration. Total consideration includes amounts paid by non-controlling interests that participated in the acquisition 
as investors in Brookfield-sponsored private funds or as co-investors.
Brookfield recorded $337 million of revenue and $22 million of net income in 2024 from the acquired operations as a result of 
the acquisitions made during the year. If the acquisitions had occurred at the beginning of the year, they would have contributed 
$1.8 billion and $130 million to total revenues and net income, respectively.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 177

The following table summarizes the balance sheet impact as a result of material business combinations that occurred in 2024. 
The valuations of the assets acquired are still under evaluation and as such the business combinations have been accounted for 
on a provisional basis.
Renewable Power 
and Transition Infrastructure
AS AT DEC. 31, 2024
(MILLIONS) Neoen ATC India Cyxtera
Cash and cash equivalents     ............................................................ $ 544 $ 368 $ 14 
Accounts receivable and other      ......................................................  417  136  140 
Other financial assets   ....................................................................  345  279  — 
Assets classified as held for sale    ...................................................  861  —  270 
Property, plant and equipment   ......................................................  7,185  1,785  2,356 
Intangible assets   ............................................................................  —  582  379 
Goodwill    .......................................................................................  3,531  294  — 
Deferred income tax assets     ...........................................................  60  —  — 
Total assets    ....................................................................................  12,943  3,444  3,159 
Less:
Accounts payable and other    .......................................................  (1,123)  (1,122)  (1,503) 
Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale    ......  (340)  —  (70) 
Non-recourse borrowings  ...........................................................  (4,611)  (119)  — 
Deferred income tax liabilities     ...................................................  (423)  (162)  (229) 
Non-controlling interests1
    ..........................................................  (3,005)  —  — 
 (9,502)  (1,403)  (1,802) 
Net assets acquired2
      ...................................................................... $ 3,441 $ 2,041 $ 1,357 
1. Includes non-controlling interests recognized on business combinations measured as the proportionate share of fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities on the 
date of acquisition. 
2. Net assets acquired is typically equal to total consideration. Total consideration includes amounts paid by non-controlling interests that participated in the acquisition as 
investors in Brookfield-sponsored private funds or as co-investors.
Renewable Power and Transition
In December 2024, a subsidiary of the company, alongside institutional partners, acquired a 53% interest in Neoen S.A. 
(“Neoen”), a leading listed global renewables developer headquartered in France. The total consideration paid for the 
business was $3.4 billion. Goodwill of $3.5 billion was recognized, which is not deductible for income tax purposes. Total 
revenues and net income that would have been recorded if the transaction had occurred at the beginning of the year are 
$579 million and $15 million, respectively.
Infrastructure
On January 12, 2024, a subsidiary of the company, alongside institutional partners, completed the acquisition of Cyxtera 
Technologies Inc. (“Cyxtera”), a data center portfolio in the U.S., through its U.S. retail colocation data center operation 
subsidiary. The subsidiary has an effective 29% interest in Cyxtera. The total consideration paid for the business was 
$803 million, and a bargain purchase gain of $554 million was recorded in fair value changes. No goodwill was recognized. 
On September 12, 2024, a subsidiary of the company, alongside institutional partners, completed the acquisition of ATC 
Telecom Infrastructure Private Limited (“ATC India”), an Indian telecom tower operation. The subsidiary has an effective 16% 
interest in ATC India. The total consideration paid for the business was $2.0 billion. Goodwill of $294 million was recognized, 
which is not deductible for income tax purposes.
Had the acquisitions of ATC India and Cyxtera been effective January 1, 2024, the Corporation’s revenue and net income 
would have increased by approximately $827 million and $96 million, respectively, for the year ended.
178 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

b) Completed During 2023 
The following table summarizes the balance sheet impact as a result of business combinations that occurred in 2023. No 
material changes were made to those allocations disclosed in the 2023 consolidated financial statements.
AS AT DEC. 31, 2023
(MILLIONS) Infrastructure 
Renewable 
Power and 
Transition
Private Equity 
and Other Total 
Cash and cash equivalents   ............................................................. $ 921 $ 228 $ 22 $ 1,171 
Accounts receivable and other     ......................................................  1,475  585  10  2,070 
Other financial assets   ....................................................................  1,519  47  1  1,567 
Assets classified as held for sale   ...................................................  —  293  —  293 
Investment properties   ....................................................................  3,244  —  —  3,244 
Property, plant and equipment     ......................................................  8,964  7,200  240  16,404 
Intangible assets     ............................................................................  4,020  8  83  4,111 
Goodwill    ........................................................................................  5,334  1,674  203  7,211 
Deferred income tax assets  ............................................................  —  97  —  97 
Total assets ....................................................................................  25,477  10,132  559  36,168 
Less:
Accounts payable and other  ........................................................  (1,500)  (1,944)  (46)  (3,490) 
Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale     .......  —  (138)  —  (138) 
Non-recourse borrowings      ...........................................................  (9,084)  (2,868)  —  (11,952) 
Deferred income tax liabilities     ...................................................  (1,558)  (333)  (47)  (1,938) 
Non-controlling interests1
 ...........................................................  —  (414)  (1)  (415) 
Preferred equity     .............................................................................  (641)  —  —  (641) 
 (12,783)  (5,697)  (94)  (18,574) 
Net assets acquired2
  ....................................................................... $ 12,694 $ 4,435 $ 465 $ 17,594 
1. Includes non-controlling interests recognized on business combinations measured as the proportionate share of fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities on the 
date of acquisition. 
2. Net assets acquired is typically equal to total consideration. Total consideration includes amounts paid by non-controlling interests that participated in the acquisition as 
investors in Brookfield-sponsored private funds or as co-investors.
Brookfield recorded $3.1 billion of revenue and $464 million of net income in 2023 from the acquired operations as a result of 
the acquisitions made during the year. If the acquisitions had occurred at the beginning of the year, they would have contributed 
$5.1 billion and $644 million to total revenues and net income, respectively.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 179

The following table summarizes the balance sheet impact as a result of material business combinations that occurred in 2023. 
No material changes were made to those allocations disclosed in the 2023 consolidated financial statements.
Infrastructure Renewable Power and Transition 
(MILLIONS) HomeServe Triton Data4 X-Elio Deriva Banks
Cash and cash equivalents     ........................................ $ 205 $ 491 $ 189 $ 42 $ 88 $ 60 
Accounts receivable and other      ..................................  806  376  284  53  328  27 
Other financial assets   ................................................  21  1,495  3  1  38  8 
Assets classified as held for sale    ...............................  —  —  —  293  —  — 
Investment properties   ................................................  —  —  3,244  —  —  — 
Property, plant and equipment   ..................................  118  8,811  35  1,160  4,024  995 
Intangible assets   ........................................................  2,827  710  6  —  —  — 
Goodwill    ...................................................................  3,337  1,163  808  1,333  —  159 
Deferred income tax assets     .......................................  —  —  —  75  —  — 
Total assets    ................................................................  7,314  13,046  4,569  2,957  4,478  1,249 
Less:
Accounts payable and other    ...................................  (792)  (406)  (260)  (126)  (1,561)  (142) 
Liabilities associated with assets classified as 
held for sale    ............................................................  —  —  —  (138)  —  — 
Non-recourse borrowings  .......................................  (1,006)  (7,041)  (845)  (795)  (1,092)  (297) 
Deferred income tax liabilities     ...............................  (613)  (446)  (416)  (105)  (29)  (151) 
Non-controlling interests1
    ......................................  —  —  —  —  (343)  (34) 
Preferred equity ......................................................  —  (641)  —  —  —  — 
 (2,411)  (8,534)  (1,521)  (1,164)  (3,025)  (624) 
Net assets acquired2       ................................................. $ 4,903 $ 4,512 $ 3,048 $ 1,793 $ 1,453 $ 625 
1. Includes non-controlling interests recognized on business combinations measured as the proportionate share of fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities on the 
date of acquisition. 
2. Net assets acquired is typically equal to total consideration. Total consideration includes amounts paid by non-controlling interests that participated in the acquisition as 
investors in Brookfield-sponsored private funds or as co-investors.
Infrastructure
On January 4, 2023, a subsidiary of the company, alongside institutional partners, completed the acquisition of HomeServe 
PLC (“HomeServe”), a residential infrastructure business operating in North America and Europe. The subsidiary has an 
effective 26% and 25% interest in HomeServe’s North American and European businesses, respectively. The total 
consideration paid for the business was $4.9 billion. Goodwill of $3.3 billion was recognized, which is not deductible for tax 
purposes. Total revenues and net loss that would have been recorded in 2023 if the transaction had occurred at the beginning of 
the year are $2.3 billion and $36 million, respectively.
On August 1, 2023, a subsidiary of the company, alongside institutional partners, completed the acquisition of Data4 Group 
(“Data4”), a high-quality European hyperscale data center platform. The subsidiary has an effective 19% interest in Data4. The 
total consideration paid for the business was $3.0 billion. Goodwill of $808 million was recognized, which is not deductible for 
income tax purposes. Total revenues and net loss that would have been recorded in 2023 if the transaction had occurred at the 
beginning of the year are $364 million and $47 million, respectively.
On September 28, 2023, a subsidiary of the company, alongside institutional partners completed the acquisition of Triton 
International Limited (“Triton”), the world’s largest owner and lessor of intermodal shipping containers. The subsidiary has an 
effective 28% interest in Triton. The total consideration for the business was $4.5 billion. Goodwill of $1.2 billion was 
recognized, which is not deductible for tax purposes. Total revenues and net income that would have been recorded in 2023 if 
the transaction had occurred at the beginning of the year are $1.6 billion and $407 million, respectively.
Renewable Power and Transition
On October 10, 2023, a subsidiary of the company, alongside institutional partners, completed the acquisition of a 100% 
interest in X-Elio Energy S.L. (“X-Elio”), a global solar development platform headquartered in Spain. The transaction was 
acquired in stages and was accounted for as a business combination as of the date on which control was attained. The total 
consideration paid for the business was $1.8 billion, comprising of $893 million of debt and an existing 50% interest valued at 
$900 million. Goodwill of $1.3 billion was recognized, which is not deductible for income tax purposes. Total revenues and net 
loss that would have been recorded in 2023 if the transaction had occurred at the beginning of the year are $58 million and 
$77 million, respectively.
180 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

On October 25, 2023, a subsidiary of the company, alongside institutional partners, acquired a 100% interest in Deriva Energy 
(“Deriva”), a U.S. renewable portfolio. The total consideration paid for the business was $1.1 billion. Total revenues and net 
income that would have been recorded in 2023 if the transaction had occurred at the beginning of the year are $401 million and 
$263 million, respectively.
On December 14, 2023, a subsidiary of the company, alongside institutional partners, acquired a 100% interest in Banks 
Renewables (“Banks”), a U.K. renewable developer. The total consideration paid for the business was $625 million. Goodwill 
of $159 million was recognized, which is not deductible for income tax purposes. Total revenues and net income that would 
have been recorded in 2023 if the transaction had occurred at the beginning of the year are $100 million and $35 million, 
respectively.
6. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
a) Financial Instruments Classification
The following tables list the company’s financial instruments by their respective classification as at December 31, 2024 and 
2023:
AS AT DEC. 31, 2024
(MILLIONS)
Fair Value 
Through 
Profit or Loss
Fair Value 
Through OCI
Amortized 
Cost Total
Financial assets1
Cash and cash equivalents     ............................................................ $ — $ — $ 15,051 $ 15,051 
Other financial assets
Government bonds     .....................................................................  —  1,383  —  1,383 
Corporate bonds     .........................................................................  788  1,506  436  2,730 
Fixed income securities and other  ..............................................  5,287  2,092  509  7,888 
Common shares and warrants   ....................................................  3,913  1,831  —  5,744 
Loans and notes receivable   ........................................................  41  —  8,101  8,142 
 10,029  6,812  9,046  25,887 
Accounts receivable and other2
   .....................................................  4,740  —  16,020  20,760 
$ 14,769 $ 6,812 $ 40,117 $ 61,698 
Financial liabilities
Corporate borrowings     ................................................................... $ — $ — $ 14,232 $ 14,232 
Non-recourse borrowings of managed entities
Property-specific borrowings    .....................................................  —  —  204,558  204,558 
Subsidiary borrowings    ...............................................................  —  —  16,002  16,002 
 —  —  220,560  220,560 
Accounts payable and other2
   .........................................................  5,560  —  40,140  45,700 
Subsidiary equity obligations   ........................................................  129  —  4,630  4,759 
$ 5,689 $ — $ 279,562 $ 285,251 
1. Financial assets include $8.5 billion of assets pledged as collateral.
2. Includes derivative instruments which are elected for hedge accounting, totaling $3.2 billion included in accounts receivable and other and $2.4 billion included in 
accounts payable and other, for which changes in fair value are recorded in other comprehensive income.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 181

AS AT DEC. 31, 2023
(MILLIONS)
Fair Value 
Through 
Profit or Loss
Fair Value 
Through OCI Amortized Cost Total
Financial assets1
Cash and cash equivalents   .......................................................... $ — $ — $ 11,222 $ 11,222 
Other financial assets
Government bonds   ...................................................................  —  1,600  —  1,600 
Corporate bonds   .......................................................................  866  1,573  2  2,441 
Fixed income securities and other      ...........................................  4,451  1,865  2,882  9,198 
Common shares and warrants    ..................................................  3,354  1,827  —  5,181 
Loans and notes receivable     ......................................................  63  —  9,841  9,904 
 8,734  6,865  12,725  28,324 
Accounts receivable and other2
   ..................................................  2,615  —  16,849  19,464 
$ 11,349 $ 6,865 $ 40,796 $ 59,010 
Financial liabilities
Corporate borrowings    ................................................................. $ — $ — $ 12,160 $ 12,160 
Non-recourse borrowings of managed entities
Property-specific borrowings    ..................................................  —  —  205,336  205,336 
Subsidiary borrowings     .............................................................  —  —  16,214  16,214 
 —  —  221,550  221,550 
Accounts payable and other2
       ......................................................  8,387  —  41,622  50,009 
Subsidiary equity obligations    .....................................................  263  —  3,882  4,145 
$ 8,650 $ — $ 279,214 $ 287,864 
1. Financial assets include $9.4 billion of assets pledged as collateral.
2. Includes derivative instruments which are elected for hedge accounting, totaling $2.1 billion included in accounts receivable and other and $3.3 billion included in 
accounts payable and other, for which changes in fair value are recorded in other comprehensive income.
Gains or losses arising from changes in fair value through profit or loss (“FVTPL”) financial assets are presented in the 
Consolidated Statements of Operations in the period in which they arise. Dividends from FVTPL and fair value through other 
comprehensive income (“FVTOCI”) financial assets are recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations when the 
company’s right to receive payment is established. Interest on FVTOCI financial assets is calculated using the effective interest 
method and reported in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
FVTOCI debt and equity securities are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with changes in FVTOCI. As at       
December 31, 2024, the unrealized gains and losses relating to the fair value of FVTOCI securities amounted to $418 million 
(2023 – $500 million) and $66 million (2023 – $278 million), respectively. 
During the year ended December 31, 2024, net deferred income of $20 million (2023 – $27 million) previously recognized in 
accumulated other comprehensive income was reclassified to net income as a result of the disposition or impairment of certain 
of our FVTOCI financial assets that are not equity instruments. 
Included in cash and cash equivalents is cash of $10.5 billion (2023 – $8.8 billion) and short-term deposits of $4.6 billion (2023 
– $2.4 billion) as at December 31, 2024.
182 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

b) Carrying and Fair Value
The following table lists the company’s financial instruments by their carrying value and fair value as at December 31, 2024 
and 2023:
2024 2023
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS)
Carrying
Value
Fair
Value
Carrying
Value
Fair
Value
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents   ....................................................................................... $ 15,051 $ 15,051 $ 11,222 $ 11,222 
Other financial assets
Government bonds   ................................................................................................  1,383  1,383  1,600  1,600 
Corporate bonds   ....................................................................................................  2,730  2,730  2,441  2,441 
Fixed income securities and other      ........................................................................  7,888  7,888  9,198  9,198 
Common shares and warrants    ...............................................................................  5,744  5,744  5,181  5,181 
Loans and notes receivable     ...................................................................................  8,142  8,142  9,904  9,904 
 25,887  25,887  28,324  28,324 
Accounts receivable and other  .................................................................................  20,760  20,760  19,464  19,464 
$ 61,698 $ 61,698 $ 59,010 $ 59,010 
Financial liabilities
Corporate borrowings    .............................................................................................. $ 14,232 $ 13,471 $ 12,160 $ 11,350 
Non-recourse borrowings of managed entities
Property-specific borrowings    ...............................................................................  204,558  204,502  205,336  205,003 
Subsidiary borrowings     ..........................................................................................  16,002  16,076  16,214  16,030 
 220,560  220,578  221,550  221,033 
Accounts payable and other  .....................................................................................  45,700  45,700  50,009  50,009 
Subsidiary equity obligations    ..................................................................................  4,759  4,759  4,145  4,145 
$ 285,251 $ 284,508 $ 287,864 $ 286,537 
The current and non-current balances of other financial assets are as follows: 
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Current    ................................................................................................................................................................ $ 5,132 $ 5,670 
Non-current    ........................................................................................................................................................  20,755  22,654 
Total    ................................................................................................................................................................... $ 25,887 $ 28,324 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 183

c) Fair Value Hierarchy Levels
The following table categorizes financial assets and liabilities, which are carried at fair value, based upon the fair value 
hierarchy levels:
 2024 2023
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
Financial assets
Other financial assets
Government bonds    ................................................... $ 21 $ 1,362 $ — $ 25 $ 1,575 $ — 
Corporate bonds    .......................................................  —  1,554  740  —  1,662  777 
Fixed income securities and other   ............................  475  878  6,026  455  958  4,903 
Common shares and warrants   ..................................  661  1,319  3,764  857  1,309  3,015 
Loans and notes receivables   .....................................  —  31  10  —  46  17 
 1,157  5,144  10,540  1,337  5,550  8,712 
Accounts receivable and other     ....................................  —  4,387  353  6  2,520  89 
$ 1,157 $ 9,531 $ 10,893 $ 1,343 $ 8,070 $ 8,801 
Financial liabilities
Accounts payable and other      ........................................ $ — $ 2,037 $ 3,523 $ 9 $ 5,119 $ 3,259 
Subsidiary equity obligations     ......................................  —  —  129  4  —  259 
$ — $ 2,037 $ 3,652 $ 13 $ 5,119 $ 3,518 
Fair values of financial instruments are determined by reference to quoted bid or ask prices, as appropriate. If bid and ask prices 
are unavailable, the closing price of the most recent transaction of that instrument is used. In the absence of an active market, 
fair values are determined based on prevailing market rates for instruments with similar characteristics and risk profiles or 
internal or external valuation models, such as option pricing models and discounted cash flow analysis, using observable 
market inputs.
The following table summarizes the valuation techniques and key inputs used in the fair value measurement of Level 2 
financial instruments:
(MILLIONS)
Type of Asset/Liability
Carrying Value
Dec. 31, 2024 Valuation Techniques and Key Inputs
Other financial assets   ..................... $ 5,144 Valuation models based on observable market data
Derivative assets/Derivative 
liabilities (accounts receivable/
accounts payable)   ...........................
             4,387 / 
(2,037)  
Foreign currency forward contracts – discounted cash flow model – forward 
exchange rates (from observable forward exchange rates at the end of the 
reporting period) and discounted at credit adjusted rate
 
Interest rate contracts – discounted cash flow model – forward interest rates 
(from observable yield curves) and applicable credit spreads discounted at a 
credit adjusted rate
 
Energy derivatives – quoted market prices, or in their absence internal 
valuation models, corroborated with observable market data
Fair values determined using valuation models requiring the use of unobservable inputs (Level 3 financial assets and liabilities) 
include assumptions concerning the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows and discount rates. In determining those 
unobservable inputs, the company uses observable external market inputs such as interest rate yield curves, currency rates and 
price and rate volatilities, as applicable, to develop assumptions regarding those unobservable inputs.
184 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

The following table summarizes the valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value 
measurement of Level 3 financial instruments:
(MILLIONS)
Type of Asset/Liability
Carrying Value
Dec. 31, 2024
Valuation
Techniques
Significant
Unobservable Inputs
Relationship of Unobservable
Inputs to Fair Value
Corporate bonds    .................... $ 740 Discounted 
cash flows
•  Future cash flows •  Increases (decreases) in 
future cash flows increase (decrease) 
fair value
•  Discount rate •  Increases (decreases) in 
discount rate decrease (increase) fair 
value
Fixed income securities and 
other   .......................................
 6,026 Discounted 
cash flows
•  Future cash flows •  Increases (decreases) in 
future cash flows increase (decrease) 
fair value
•  Discount rate •  Increases (decreases) in 
discount rate decrease (increase) fair 
value
Common shares and 
warrants  .................................
 3,764 Discounted 
cash flows
•  Future cash flows •  Increases (decreases) in 
future cash flows increase (decrease) 
fair value
•  Discount rate
•  Increases (decreases) in 
discount rate decrease (increase) fair 
value
Black-Scholes 
model
•  Volatility •  Increases (decreases) in volatility 
increase (decreases) fair value
•  Term to maturity •  Increases (decreases) in term to 
maturity increase (decrease) fair 
value
Derivative assets/Derivative 
liabilities (accounts 
receivable/payable)  ................
353 /
(3,523)
 
 
Discounted 
cash flows
 
 
•  Future cash flows  
 
•  Increases (decreases) in 
future cash flows increase (decrease) 
fair value
•  Discount rate •  Increases (decreases) in discount rate 
decrease (increase) fair value
Limited-life funds 
(subsidiary equity 
obligations)    ............................
 (129) Discounted 
cash flows
•  Future cash flows •  Increases (decreases) in 
future cash flows increase (decrease) 
fair value
•  Discount rate •  Increases (decreases) in 
discount rate decrease (increase) fair 
value
•  Terminal 
capitalization rate
•  Increases (decreases) in 
terminal capitalization 
rate decrease (increase) fair value
•  Investment horizon •  Increases (decreases) in the 
investment horizon decrease 
(increase) fair value
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 185

The following table presents the changes in the balance of financial assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 for the years 
ended December 31, 2024 and 2023:
 2024 2023
AS AT AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS)
Financial
Assets
Financial
Liabilities
Financial 
Assets 
Financial 
Liabilities 
Balance, beginning of year    ...................................................................................... $ 8,801 $ 3,518 $ 5,831 $ 3,092 
Fair value changes in net income   ............................................................................  603  (432)  317  (444) 
Fair value changes in other comprehensive income1
     ..............................................  102  105  654  (108) 
Transfers in    ..............................................................................................................  176  —  773  — 
Transfers out    ............................................................................................................  (622)  (42)  (44)  (56) 
Additions, net of disposals    ......................................................................................  1,833  503  1,270  1,034 
Balance, end of year    ................................................................................................ $ 10,893 $ 3,652 $ 8,801 $ 3,518 
1. Includes foreign currency translation.
During the year ended December 31, 2024, $622 million of financial assets primarily in our real estate LP investments included 
within our Asset Management segment were transferred out of Level 3 financial assets to investment properties. Transfers out 
of Level 3 were a result of prior year loans secured by a multifamily asset portfolio in the U.S. that was subsequently acquired 
out of foreclosure and is now reported as investment properties in the current period. No other significant transfers were made 
between Levels 1, 2, or 3 during the year ended December 31, 2024.
During the year ended December 31, 2023, $773 million of direct investments in equity securities within our Asset 
Management segment were transferred from Level 2 to Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy due to the implied price or cost 
previously used in the fair valuation of the investments not being observable due to minimal market activity for the securities. 
No other significant transfers were made between Levels 1, 2, or 3 during the year ended December 31, 2023.
The following table categorizes financial liabilities measured at amortized cost, but for which fair values are disclosed based 
upon the fair value hierarchy levels: 
 2024 2023
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
Corporate borrowings     .................................................. $ 13,408 $ 63 $ — $ 11,280 $ 70 $ — 
Property-specific borrowings    ......................................  8,986  123,385  72,131  8,526  108,076  88,401 
Subsidiary borrowings .................................................  7,715  671  7,690  7,527  —  8,503 
Subsidiary equity obligations     ......................................  —  —  4,630  —  1,211  2,671 
Fair values of Level 2 and Level 3 liabilities measured at amortized cost but for which fair values are disclosed are determined 
using valuation techniques such as adjusted public pricing and discounted cash flows. 
d) Hedging Activities
The company uses derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments to manage or maintain exposures to interest, currency, 
credit and other market risks. Derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value. For certain derivatives which are used 
to manage exposures, the company determines whether hedge accounting can be applied. Hedge accounting is applied when the 
derivative is designated as a hedge of a specific exposure and there is assurance that it will continue to be highly effective as a 
hedge based on an expectation of offsetting cash flows or fair value. Hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively when the 
derivative no longer qualifies as a hedge or the hedging relationship is terminated. Once discontinued, the cumulative change in 
fair value of a derivative that was previously recorded in other comprehensive income by the application of hedge accounting is 
recognized in profit or loss over the remaining term of the original hedging relationship as amounts related to the hedged item 
are recognized in profit or loss. The assets or liabilities relating to unrealized mark-to-market gains and losses on derivative 
financial instruments are recorded in financial assets and liabilities, respectively.
i. Cash Flow Hedges 
The company uses the following cash flow hedges: foreign exchange contracts to hedge currency volatility, energy derivative 
contracts to hedge the sale of power; interest rate swaps to hedge the variability in cash flows or future cash flows related to a 
variable rate asset or liability; and equity derivatives to hedge long-term compensation arrangements. For the year ended 
December 31, 2024, pre-tax net unrealized loss of $17 million (2023 – $754 million of loss) were recorded in other 
comprehensive income for the effective portion of the cash flow hedges. As at December 31, 2024, there was an unrealized 
186 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

derivative asset balance of $78 million (2023 – $1.0 billion asset) relating to derivative contracts designated as cash flow 
hedges. 
ii. Net Investment Hedges 
The company uses foreign exchange contracts and foreign currency denominated debt instruments to manage its foreign 
currency exposures arising from net investments in foreign operations. For the year ended December 31, 2024, unrealized pre-
tax net gain of $2.8 billion (2023 – $1.2 billion of loss) were recorded in other comprehensive income for the effective portion 
of hedges of net investments in foreign operations. As at December 31, 2024, there was an unrealized derivative asset balance 
of $758 million (2023 – $2.2 billion liability) relating to derivative contracts designated as net investment hedges.
e) Netting of Financial Instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are offset with the net amount reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, where the company 
currently has a legally enforceable right to offset and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realize the asset and settle 
the liability simultaneously.
The company enters into derivative transactions under International Swaps and Derivatives Association (“ISDA”) master 
netting agreements. In general, under such agreements the amounts owed by each counterparty on a single day are aggregated 
into a single net amount that is payable by one party to the other. The agreements provide the company with the legal and 
enforceable right to offset these amounts and accordingly the following balances are presented net in the consolidated financial 
statements: 
 
Accounts Receivable 
and Other
Accounts Payable 
and Other
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023 2024 2023
Gross amounts of financial instruments before netting    ........................................... $ 4,882 $ 3,204 $ 3,371 $ 5,305 
Gross amounts of financial instruments set-off in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets    ...................................................................................  (142)  (589)  (135)  (506) 
Net amounts of financial instruments in the Consolidated Balance Sheets     ............ $ 4,740 $ 2,615 $ 3,236 $ 4,799 
7. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AND OTHER 
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) Note 2024 2023
Accounts receivable    ............................................................................................................................ (a) $ 14,493 $ 14,879 
Prepaid expenses and other assets  .......................................................................................................  13,649  11,363 
Restricted cash     .................................................................................................................................... (b)  2,076  2,270 
Total      .................................................................................................................................................... $ 30,218 $ 28,512 
The current and non-current balances of accounts receivable and other are as follows: 
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Current     .............................................................................................................................................................. $ 20,283 $ 20,263 
Non-current     .......................................................................................................................................................  9,935  8,249 
Total      ................................................................................................................................................................... $ 30,218 $ 28,512 a) Accounts Receivable 
Accounts receivable includes contract assets of $709 million (2023 – $451 million). Contract assets primarily relate to work-in-
progress on our long-term construction services contracts for which customers have not yet been billed.
b) Restricted Cash 
Restricted cash primarily relates to the financing arrangements including defeasement of debt obligations, debt service accounts 
and deposits held by the company’s insurance operations across our segments.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 187

8. INVENTORY 
The following table presents the components of inventory:
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Industrial products    ............................................................................................................................................. $ 2,174 $ 2,303 
Completed residential properties     ......................................................................................................................  1,542  1,396 
Residential properties under development     .........................................................................................................  1,376  2,109 
Land held for development   ...............................................................................................................................  1,073  1,715 
Other1
    .................................................................................................................................................................  2,293  3,889 
Total      ................................................................................................................................................................... $ 8,458 $ 11,412 
1. As at December 31, 2024, the significant components of other inventory are office, industrial, retail and commercial developments of $1.1 billion (2023 – $1.1 billion), 
and logistics buildings of $152 million (2023 – $773 million).
The current and non-current balances of inventory are as follows: 
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Current     .............................................................................................................................................................. $ 5,418 $ 7,060 
Non-current     .......................................................................................................................................................  3,040  4,352 
Total      ................................................................................................................................................................... $ 8,458 $ 11,412 
During the year ended December 31, 2024, the company recognized $28.1 billion of inventory relating to cost of goods sold 
(2023 – $41.9 billion) and a $186 million expense for impaired inventory (2023 – $315 million). The carrying amount of 
inventory pledged as collateral as at December 31, 2024 was $4.2 billion (2023 – $5.4 billion).
188 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

9. HELD FOR SALE
The following is a summary of the assets and liabilities classified as held for sale as at December 31, 2024 and 2023:
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS)
Renewable 
Power and 
Transition Infrastructure
Private 
Equity
Real Estate 
(Core and 
Transitional & 
Development)1
Real Estate 
(LP 
Investments) 
and Other1
2024 
Total
2023 
Total
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents   ......... $ 48 $ — $ 115 $ — $ 63 $ 226 $ 11 
Accounts receivable and other     ..  87  7  352  948  121  1,515  79 
Equity accounted investments   ...  421  819  —  —  242  1,482  132 
Investment properties   ................  —  —  —  1,064  2,411  3,475  2,141 
Property, plant and equipment     ..  1,396  —  1,575  —  454  3,425  112 
Intangible assets     ........................  —  —  —  —  14  14  10 
Other long-term assets ...............  152  —  —  —  —  152  — 
Deferred income tax assets  ........  2  —  —  —  —  2  4 
Assets classified as held for sale   .. $ 2,106 $ 826 $ 2,042 $ 2,012 $ 3,305 $ 10,291 $ 2,489 
Liabilities
Accounts payable and other      ...... $ 113 $ 4 $ 282 $ 115 $ 161 $ 675 $ 112 
Non-recourse borrowings of 
managed entities     ........................  824  525  1,425  —  1,130  3,904  4 
Deferred income tax liabilities  ..  133  —  3  —  6  142  2 
Liabilities associated with assets 
classified as held for sale  .............. $ 1,070 $ 529 $ 1,710 $ 115 $ 1,297 $ 4,721 $ 118 
1. Real estate core and transitional and development investments are included in our Real Estate segment. Real estate LP investments are included within our Asset 
Management segment as we include the discretionary capital that we invest directly into and alongside private funds managed by BAM and other investments within 
this segment.
As at December 31, 2024, assets held for sale primarily relate to: 
• Several office, retail, hospitality, and multifamily assets in the U.S., and logistics assets across the U.S., Japan and 
Europe within our LP investments included within our Asset Management segment;
• An office asset and three retail assets in the U.S., and an office asset in Australia, within our Real Estate segment;
• An interest in a 2 GW pumped storage facility in the U.K., a 30 MW biomass facility in Brazil, and a 1,004 MW 
portfolio of wind and solar assets in India, within our Renewable Power and Transition segment; and
• Our offshore oil services operation’s shuttle tanker business within our Private Equity segment. 
For the year ended December 31, 2024, we disposed of $6.2 billion and $1.4 billion of assets and liabilities, respectively, 
primarily related to the sales of a portfolio of 63 MW solar assets, 682 MW wind assets, and a 1.6 GW development pipeline in 
Spain and Portugal, a partial interest in a core office building in the Middle East, several office, multifamily, and hospitality 
assets in the U.S., and a hospitality asset in South Korea.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 189

10. EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTMENTS 
The following table presents the ownership interests and carrying values of the company’s investments in associates and joint 
ventures, all of which are accounted for using the equity method:
Ownership Interest1 Carrying Value
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023 2024 2023
Renewable Power and Transition
Associates
Wind   ............................................................................................................... 13 – 50% 32 – 50% $ 2,763 $ 577 
Sustainable solutions    ...................................................................................... 4 – 67% 4 – 51%  2,529  2,586 
Other   ............................................................................................................... 12 – 67% 8 – 65%  1,696  1,748 
 6,988  4,911 
Infrastructure
Associates
Utilities    ........................................................................................................... 50% 50%  658  783 
Transport    ........................................................................................................ 26 – 58% 26 – 58%  1,907  1,799 
Data    ................................................................................................................ 26 – 49% 26 – 49%  6,232  6,023 
Other   ............................................................................................................... 11 – 65% 11 – 65%  166  179 
Joint ventures
Utilities    ........................................................................................................... 50% 50%  235  1,200 
Transport    ........................................................................................................ 21 – 50% 21 – 50%  2,700  2,599 
Midstream ....................................................................................................... 25% 25%  457  461 
Data    ................................................................................................................ 49 – 50% 49 – 50%  5,378  4,042 
 17,733  17,086 
Private Equity 
Associates
Industrial operations  ....................................................................................... 13 – 54% 13 – 54%  1,032  553 
Other   ............................................................................................................... 11 – 50% 14 – 50%  3,174  2,950 
 4,206  3,503 
Real Estate
Associates
Transitional and development  ........................................................................ 25 – 27% 25 – 27%  111  96 
Joint ventures
Core      ................................................................................................................ 17 – 56% 22 – 56%  10,603  10,702 
Transitional and development  ........................................................................ 5 – 60% 5 – 60%  7,539  7,394 
 18,253  18,192 
Wealth Solutions 2
     ..............................................................................................  83%  71%  8,699  4,411 
Asset Management and Other
Associates
Oaktree     ...........................................................................................................  72%  68%  7,457  6,974 
Real estate LP investments3
     ........................................................................... 27 – 50% 16 – 50%  222  258 
Joint ventures
Real estate LP investments3
     ........................................................................... 18 – 93% 18 – 93%  3,715  3,387 
Other equity accounted investments    ................................................................ 25 – 85% 25 – 85%  1,037  402 
 12,431  11,021 
Total    ................................................................................................................................................................... $ 68,310 $ 59,124 
1. Joint ventures or associates in which the ownership interest is greater than 50% represent investments for which control is either shared or does not exist resulting in the 
investment being equity accounted.
2. Wealth Solutions relates to our capital in our equity accounted investment in Brookfield Wealth Solutions Ltd.
3. Real estate LP investments are included within our Asset Management segment as we include the discretionary capital that we invest directly into and alongside private 
funds managed by BAM and other investments within this segment.
190 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

The following table presents the change in the balance of investments in associates and joint ventures: 
AS AT AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED 
DEC. 31
(MILLIONS)
Renewable 
Power and 
Transition Infrastructure
Private 
Equity Real Estate
Wealth 
Solutions2
Asset 
Management 
and Other3
2024
Total
2023 
Total
Balance, beginning of year      .......... $ 4,911 $ 17,086 $ 3,503 $ 18,192 $ 4,411 $ 11,021 $ 59,124 $ 47,094 
Additions, net of disposals1
  ..........  1,880  1,528  1,004  474  2,732  1,544  9,162  10,798 
Acquisitions through business 
combinations    ................................  8  —  —  —  —  —  8  44 
Share of comprehensive income     ..  424  1,143  10  375  1,556  619  4,127  2,755 
Distributions received    ..................  (86)  (743)  (274)  (365)  —  (620)  (2,088)  (1,628) 
Return of capital   ...........................  —  —  —  (308)  —  (27)  (335)  (480) 
Foreign currency translation   ........  (149)  (1,281)  (37)  (115)  —  (106)  (1,688)  541 
Balance, end of year    ..................... $ 6,988 $ 17,733 $ 4,206 $ 18,253 $ 8,699 $ 12,431 $ 68,310 $ 59,124 
1. Includes assets sold and amounts reclassified to held for sale.
2. Wealth Solutions relates to our capital in our equity accounted investment in Brookfield Wealth Solutions Ltd.
3. Asset Management equity accounted investments primarily relate to Oaktree and real estate LP investments. Real estate LP investments are included within our Asset 
Management segment as we include the discretionary capital that we invest directly into and alongside private funds managed by BAM and other investments within 
this segment.
Additions, net of disposals, of $9.2 billion during the year included the incremental capital invested in BWS via the conversion 
of preferred shares, contribution of BBU units, and contribution of BAM shares to support the acquisition of AEL, all in 
exchange for additional Class C shares of BWS. Additions, net of disposals, also included the acquisition of an offshore wind 
portfolio in the U.K. in our Renewable Power and Transition segment, our payment processing services operation in our Private 
Equity segment and additions within our Infrastructure segment. Our equity accounted investments balance also increased due 
to our proportionate share of comprehensive income earned by our equity accounted investments.
In the prior year, additions, net of disposals, of $10.8 billion included the acquisition of our equity accounted investment in our 
nuclear technology services operation in our Renewable Power and Transition segment from Brookfield Business Partners L.P., 
a subsidiary of the Corporation. In connection with this transaction, the Corporation recognized gains of $3.9 billion in other 
income and gains within net income upon loss of control due to the disposition of our nuclear technology services operation.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 191

The following table presents current and non-current assets, as well as current and non-current liabilities of the company’s 
investments in associates and joint ventures: 
2024 2023
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS)
Current 
Assets
Non-
Current 
Assets
Current 
Liabilities
Non-
Current 
Liabilities
Current 
Assets
Non-
Current 
Assets
Current 
Liabilities
Non-
Current 
Liabilities
Renewable Power and Transition
Associates
Wind   ................................................. $ 890 $ 19,395 $ 677 $ 1,420 $ 695 $ 2,132 $ 452 $ 733 
Sustainable solutions    ........................  2,978  13,930  2,515  6,128  2,862  13,952  2,623  6,055 
Other   .................................................  1,987  9,638  2,908  4,882  1,641  10,560  1,578  5,835 
Infrastructure 
Associates
Utilities    .............................................  160  1,882  67  1,228  208  2,563  74  1,132 
Transport    ..........................................  1,293  10,782  1,208  6,072  1,641  12,862  2,065  6,994 
Data    ..................................................  1,927  42,012  2,142  22,600  1,061  42,547  2,725  21,996 
Other   .................................................  112  532  83  237  134  1,032  94  321 
Joint ventures
Utilities    .............................................  94  1,358  58  914  437  6,025  337  4,177 
Transport    ..........................................  230  11,051  72  6,147  239  10,563  148  6,131 
Midstream .........................................  195  6,257  259  4,080  226  6,143  190  4,058 
Data    ..................................................  382  15,453  2,544  2,351  355  8,272  188  3,883 
Private Equity 
Associates
Industrial operations  .........................  1,257  1,649  564  1,041  908  650  367  334 
Other   .................................................  3,787  13,618  3,114  8,406  3,306  10,917  2,020  6,992 
Real Estate
Associates
Transitional and development  ..........  53  448  26  108  170  329  11  118 
Joint ventures
Core      ..................................................  1,458  41,236  4,244  15,482  2,315  39,945  3,942  16,150 
Transitional and development  ..........  1,774  29,903  4,835  9,940  1,265  29,675  7,044  7,096 
Wealth Solutions 1
     ................................  32,524  107,936  1,005  126,379  11,930  49,494  1,654  53,646 
Asset Management and Other
Associates
Oaktree    .............................................  2,261  19,142  1,775  10,372  2,493  19,733  2,277  10,730 
Real estate LP Investments2
    .............  —  354  —  —  20  473  11  80 
Joint ventures
Real estate LP Investments2
    .............  1,544  21,399  3,110  3,526  2,491  9,670  1,575  4,705 
Other equity accounted investments     ...  366  586  240  414  189  220  126  52 
$ 55,272 $ 368,561 $ 31,446 $ 231,727 $ 34,586 $ 277,757 $ 29,501 $ 161,218 
1. Wealth Solutions relates to our capital in our equity accounted investment in Brookfield Wealth Solutions Ltd.
2. Real estate LP investments are included within our Asset Management segment as we include the discretionary capital that we invest directly into and alongside private 
funds managed by BAM and other investments within this segment.
Certain of the company’s investments in associates are subject to restrictions on the extent to which they can remit funds to 
the company in the form of cash dividends or repay loans and advances as a result of borrowing arrangements, regulatory 
restrictions and other contractual requirements.
192 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

The following table presents total revenues, net income and other comprehensive income (“OCI”) of the company’s 
investments in associates and joint ventures:
2024 2023
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) Revenue
Net 
Income OCI Revenue
Net 
Income OCI
Renewable Power and Transition
Associates
Wind   ....................................................................... $ 353 $ 16 $ (128) $ 185 $ 11 $ — 
Sustainable solutions    ..............................................  5,350  (365)  124  394  (15)  (67) 
Other    ......................................................................  2,465  198  880  2,893  662  (355) 
Infrastructure 
Associates
Utilities   ...................................................................  193  (91)  (114)  1,136  39  (376) 
Transport     ................................................................  3,119  342  (820)  3,044  27  330 
Data    ........................................................................  2,732  964  (764)  2,272  (45)  685 
Other    ......................................................................  228  (11)  (123)  206  (180)  (283) 
Joint ventures
Utilities   ...................................................................  272  87  (179)  724  286  183 
Transport     ................................................................  9,353  2,481  (59)  12,102  4,114  36 
Midstream   ..............................................................  902  198  66  924  315  188 
Data    ........................................................................  475  (127)  (658)  1,047  511  (53) 
Private Equity 
Associates
Industrial operations  ...............................................  2,388  130  1  2,216  80  (5) 
Other    ......................................................................  6,888  (15)  (80)  6,951  208  6 
Real Estate
Associates
Transitional and development    ................................  355  51  —  26  22  — 
Joint ventures
Core    ........................................................................  2,227  1,173  (38)  2,328  (66)  (60) 
Transitional and development    ................................  3,045  469  (25)  2,956  76  (30) 
Wealth Solutions 1
     ......................................................  14,366  898  750  6,785  452  484 
Asset Management and Other
Associates
Oaktree    ..................................................................  1,781  651  (1)  1,503  475  16 
Real estate LP Investments2
    ..................................  17  (15)  (78)  40  (55)  (56) 
Joint ventures
Real estate LP Investments2
    ..................................  1,503  724  82  1,878  336  34 
Other equity accounted investments   ........................  496  77  (2)  285  50  18 
$ 58,508 $ 7,835 $ (1,166) $ 49,895 $ 7,303 $ 695 
1. Wealth Solutions relates to our capital in our equity accounted investment in Brookfield Wealth Solutions Ltd.
2. Real estate LP investments are included within our Asset Management segment as we include the discretionary capital that we invest directly into and alongside private 
funds managed by BAM and other investments within this segment.
Certain of the company’s investments are publicly listed entities with active pricing in a liquid market. 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 193

11. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES 
The following table presents the change in the fair value of the company’s investment properties: 
AS AT AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Fair value, beginning of year    ........................................................................................................................... $ 124,152 $ 115,100 
Additions   .........................................................................................................................................................  13,228  9,278 
Acquisitions through business combinations     ..................................................................................................  11  3,244 
Dispositions1
    ....................................................................................................................................................  (6,538)  (4,258) 
BSREP IV deconsolidation2
   ............................................................................................................................  (24,862)  — 
Fair value changes      .........................................................................................................................................  556  (105) 
Foreign currency translation and other     ............................................................................................................  (2,882)  893 
Fair value, end of year3
  .................................................................................................................................... $ 103,665 $ 124,152 
1. Includes amounts reclassified to held for sale.
2. Following the completion of the partial sale of BSREP IV to BWS, our investment in BSREP IV was deconsolidated and recognized within equity accounted 
investments. BN was issued additional Class C shares in BWS as consideration for the acquisition by BWS.
3. As at December 31, 2024, the ending balance includes $96.5 billion (December 31, 2023 – $114.8 billion) of investment properties leased to third parties and  
$4.2 billion of ROU investment properties (December 31, 2023 – $4.8 billion).
Investment properties include the company’s office, retail, multifamily and other properties. Additions and acquisitions of 
$13.2 billion (2023 – $12.5 billion) primarily relate to the acquisitions of three U.S. multifamily asset portfolios, a U.S. student 
housing portfolio, and a logistics asset portfolio in Europe, all within our LP investments included in our Asset Management 
segment, and enhancement of existing assets during the year.
Dispositions of $6.5 billion (2023 – $4.3 billion) included the sale of manufactured housing communities in the U.S., certain 
office and retail assets in the U.S., and a hospitality asset in South Korea. In addition, the current year includes the 
reclassification of certain office, retail, and logistics assets held within our real estate funds to assets held for sale.
Investment properties generated $6.9 billion (2023 – $6.6 billion) in rental income and incurred $4.8 billion (2023 – 
$4.8 billion) in direct operating expenses. Most of our investment properties are pledged as collateral for the non-recourse 
borrowings at their respective properties.
The following table presents our investment properties measured at fair value:
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Core      ................................................................................................................................................................. $ 18,501 $ 18,970 
Transitional and development  .........................................................................................................................  21,495  23,016 
LP Investments1
   ...............................................................................................................................................  58,446  77,627 
Other investment properties     ............................................................................................................................  5,223  4,539 
$ 103,665 $ 124,152 
1. The balance as at December 31, 2024 reflects the impact of the deconsolidation of BSREP IV within our LP investments.
194 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

Significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) are utilized when determining the fair value of investment properties. The significant 
Level 3 inputs include:
Valuation 
Technique
Significant Unobservable 
Inputs
Relationship of Unobservable 
Inputs to Fair Value Mitigating Factors
Discounted cash 
flow analysis1
•  Future cash flows – 
primarily driven by net 
operating income
•  Increases (decreases) in future 
cash flows increase (decrease) 
fair value
• Increases (decreases) in cash flows tend to be 
accompanied by increases (decreases) in 
discount rates that may offset changes in fair 
value from cash flows
•  Discount rate • Increases (decreases) in 
discount rate decrease 
(increase) fair value
• Increases (decreases) in discount rates tend to 
be accompanied by increases (decreases) in 
cash flows that may offset changes in fair 
value from discount rates
•  Terminal capitalization 
rate
• Increases (decreases) in 
terminal capitalization rate 
decrease (increase) fair value
• Increases (decreases) in terminal 
capitalization rates tend to be accompanied 
by increases (decreases) in cash flows that 
may offset changes in fair value from 
terminal capitalization rates
•  Investment horizon • Increases (decreases) in the 
investment horizon decrease 
(increase) fair value
• Increases (decreases) in the investment 
horizon tend to be the result of changing cash 
flow profiles that may result in higher (lower) 
growth in cash flows prior to stabilizing in 
the terminal year
1. Certain investment properties are valued using the direct capitalization method instead of a discounted cash flow model. Under the direct capitalization method, a 
capitalization rate is applied to estimated current year cash flows. 
The company’s investment properties are diversified by asset type, asset class, geography and market. Therefore, there may be 
mitigating factors in addition to those noted above, such as changes to assumptions that vary in direction and magnitude across 
different geographies and markets.
The following table summarizes the key valuation metrics of the company’s investment properties:
2024 2023
AS AT DEC. 31
Discount
Rate
Terminal
Capitalization
Rate
Investment
Horizon
(years)
Discount 
Rate
Terminal 
Capitalization 
Rate
Investment 
Horizon 
(years)
Core    .................................................  6.3%  4.8% 11  6.2%  4.8% 11
Transitional and development1
   ........  7.9%  6.3% 10  7.9%  6.2% 10
LP Investments1,2
   .............................  9.1%  6.2% 14  8.6%  5.8% 13
Other investment properties3
    ...........  7.9% n/a n/a  7.4% n/a n/a
1. The rates presented are for investment properties valued using the discounted cash flow method. These rates exclude multifamily, triple net lease, student housing, 
manufactured housing and other investment properties valued using the direct capitalization method.
2. The rates as at December 31, 2024 reflect the impact of the deconsolidation of BSREP IV.
3. Other investment properties include investment properties held in our Infrastructure segment and other direct investments within our Asset Management segment.
12. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
The company’s PP&E relates to the operating segments as shown below:
Renewable Power 
and Transition (a) Infrastructure (b) Private Equity (c)
Real Estate (Core 
and Transitional & 
Development)2 (d)
Real Estate (LP 
Investments) 
and Other2 (e) Total 
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Cost    ..................... $ 52,279 $ 46,284 $ 56,560 $ 51,635 $ 19,317 $ 22,470 $ 545 $ 543 $ 11,105 $ 16,663 $ 139,806 $ 137,595 
Accumulated fair 
value changes  ......  36,324  31,989  5,419  4,137  (549)  (701)  9  50  1,676  2,464  42,879  37,939 
Accumulated 
depreciation   .........  (12,189)  (11,922)  (9,354)  (7,226)  (5,381)  (5,934)  (239)  (248)  (2,503)  (2,587)  (29,666)  (27,917) 
Total1
    ................... $ 76,414 $ 66,351 $ 52,625 $ 48,546 $ 13,387 $ 15,835 $ 315 $ 345 $ 10,278 $ 16,540 $ 153,019 $ 147,617 
1. As at December 31, 2024, the total includes $6.2 billion (2023 – $6.8 billion) of PP&E leased to third parties as operating leases. Our ROU PP&E assets include 
$1.1 billion (2023 – $757 million) in our Renewable Power and Transition segment, $5.2 billion (2023 – $3.6 billion) in our Infrastructure segment, $924 million (2023 
– $1.3 billion) in our Private Equity, $80 million (2023 – $86 million) in our core and transitional and development investments within our Real Estate segment, and 
$829 million (2023 – $1.1 billion) within our Asset Management segment, totaling $8.1 billion (2023 – $6.8 billion) of ROU assets. 
2. Real estate core and transitional and development investments are included in our Real Estate segment. Real estate LP investments are included within our Asset 
Management segment as we include the discretionary capital that we invest directly into and alongside private funds managed by BAM and other investments within 
this segment.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 195

Renewable Power and Transition, Infrastructure, and Real Estate segments, as well as real estate LP Investments within our 
Asset Management segment primarily carry PP&E assets at fair value, classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy due to 
the use of significant unobservable inputs when determining fair value. The carrying amount that would have been recognized 
had our assets been accounted for under the cost model is $99.5 billion (2023 – $96.4 billion). The Private Equity segment 
carries PP&E assets at amortized cost. As at December 31, 2024 , $92.3 billion (2023 – $92.3 billion) of PP&E, at cost, were 
pledged as collateral for the property debt at their respective properties.
a) Renewable Power and Transition
Our Renewable Power and Transition PP&E consists of the following:
Hydroelectric Wind Solar and Other Total
AS AT AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Cost, beginning of year    ........................... $ 13,656 $ 12,480 $ 16,787 $ 11,904 $ 15,841 $ 10,099 $ 46,284 $ 34,483 
Additions, net of disposals and assets 
reclassified as held for sale    .....................  (187)  148  (862)  1,147  2,472  1,981  1,423  3,276 
Acquisitions through business 
combinations   ...........................................  —  —  3,263  3,712  4,176  3,488  7,439  7,200 
Foreign currency translation and other     ...  (1,646)  1,028  (840)  24  (381)  273  (2,867)  1,325 
Cost, end of year     .....................................  11,823  13,656  18,348  16,787  22,108  15,841  52,279  46,284 
Accumulated fair value changes, 
beginning of year   ....................................  26,653  25,642  3,614  3,253  1,722  1,831  31,989  30,726 
Fair value changes    ..................................  3,215  (596)  1,531  296  1,185  (84)  5,931  (384) 
Dispositions and assets reclassified as 
held for sale    ............................................  —  49  —  6  (60)  (23)  (60)  32 
Foreign currency translation and other     ...  (1,307)  1,558  (168)  59  (61)  (2)  (1,536)  1,615 
Accumulated fair value changes, end 
of year     .....................................................  28,561  26,653  4,977  3,614  2,786  1,722  36,324  31,989 
Accumulated depreciation, beginning of 
year    .........................................................  (6,332)  (5,564)  (3,560)  (2,861)  (2,030)  (1,541)  (11,922)  (9,966) 
Depreciation expenses   ............................  (646)  (667)  (802)  (709)  (602)  (499)  (2,050)  (1,875) 
Dispositions and assets reclassified as 
held for sale    ............................................  143  5  566  4  221  2  930  11 
Foreign currency translation and other     ...  698  (106)  382  6  (227)  8  853  (92) 
Accumulated depreciation, end of year    ..  (6,137)  (6,332)  (3,414)  (3,560)  (2,638)  (2,030)  (12,189)  (11,922) 
Balance, end of year      ............................... $ 34,247 $ 33,977 $ 19,911 $ 16,841 $ 22,256 
$ 15,533 $ 76,414 $ 66,351 
The following table presents our Renewable Power and Transition PP&E measured at fair value by geography:
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
North America     ................................................................................................................................................... $ 44,538 $ 41,636 
Colombia   ............................................................................................................................................................  12,431  10,585 
Brazil   ..................................................................................................................................................................  4,283  5,578 
Europe    ................................................................................................................................................................  7,144  5,409 
Asia and other    ....................................................................................................................................................  8,018  3,143 
$ 76,414 $ 66,351 
196 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

Renewable Power and Transition assets are accounted for under the revaluation model and the most recent date of revaluation 
was December 31, 2024. Valuations utilize significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) when determining the fair value of 
Renewable Power and Transition assets. The significant Level 3 inputs include:
Valuation 
Technique
Significant 
Unobservable Inputs
Relationship of Unobservable 
Inputs to Fair Value  Mitigating Factors
Discounted cash 
flow analysis
• Future cash flows – 
primarily impacted by 
future electricity price 
assumptions
• Increases (decreases) in future 
cash flows increase (decrease) 
fair value
• Increases (decreases) in cash flows tend to 
be accompanied by increases (decreases) in 
discount rates that may offset changes in fair 
value from cash flows
• Discount rate • Increases (decreases) in 
discount rate decrease 
(increase) fair value
• Increases (decreases) in discount rates tend 
to be accompanied by increases (decreases) 
in cash flows that may offset changes in fair 
value from discount rates
• Terminal 
capitalization rate
• Increases (decreases) in 
terminal capitalization rate 
decrease (increase) fair value
• Increases (decreases) in terminal 
capitalization rates tend to be accompanied 
by increases (decreases) in cash flows that 
may offset changes in fair value from 
terminal capitalization rates
• Terminal year • Increases (decreases) in the 
terminal year decrease 
(increase) fair value
• Increases (decreases) in the terminal year 
tend to be the result of changing cash flow 
profiles that may result in higher (lower) 
growth in cash flows prior to stabilizing in 
the terminal year
Key valuation metrics of the company’s hydroelectric, wind and solar generating facilities at the end of 2024 and 2023 are 
summarized below.
North America Colombia Brazil Europe
AS AT DEC. 31 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Discount rate
Contracted   ............ 5.1% – 5.8% 5.1% – 5.7%  8.5%  8.7%  9.6%  8.4% 4.9% – 6.6%   4.8% 
Uncontracted    ........ 6.3% – 7.2% 6.3% – 7.0%  9.8%  10.0%  10.9%  9.7% 4.9% – 6.6%  4.8% 
Terminal 
capitalization rate1
      .. 4.3% – 5.1% 4.4% – 5.0%  7.3%  8.0% n/a n/a n/a n/a
Terminal year     .......... 2048 2046 2044 2043 2052 2053 2047 2037
1. Terminal capitalization rate applies only to hydroelectric assets in North America and Colombia.
Terminal values are included in the valuation of hydroelectric assets in the U.S., Canada, and Colombia. For the hydroelectric 
assets in Brazil, cash flows have been included based on the duration of the authorization or useful life of a concession asset 
plus a one-time 30-year renewal term for the majority of the hydroelectric assets. The weighted-average remaining duration or 
useful life of a concession asset as at December 31, 2024, including a one-time 30-year renewal for applicable hydroelectric 
assets, is 30 years (2023 – 34 years). Consequently, there is no terminal value attributed to the hydroelectric assets in Brazil at 
the end of the authorization term.
Key assumptions on contracted generation and future power pricing are summarized below:
AS AT DEC. 31, 2024
Total Generation Contracted 
under Power Purchase 
Agreements
Power Prices from Long-
Term Power Purchase 
Agreements 
(weighted average)
Estimates of Future 
Electricity Prices
(weighted average)
1 – 10 years 11 – 20 years 1 – 10 years 11 – 20 years 1 – 10 years 11 – 20 years
North America (prices in US$/MWh)   ...  64%  25%  61  65  90  104 
Colombia (prices in COP$/MWh)   .........  49%  4%  310  398  494  684 
Brazil (prices in R$/MWh)  ....................  79%  36%  310  393  309  430 
Europe (prices in €/MWh) .....................  95%  45%  91  93  94  86 
The company’s estimate of future renewable power pricing is based on management’s estimate of the cost of securing new 
energy from renewable sources to meet future demand between 2028 and 2035 (2023 – between 2027 and 2035), which will 
maintain system reliability and provide adequate levels of reserve generation.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 197

b) Infrastructure
Our Infrastructure PP&E consists of the following:
Utilities Transport Midstream Data Total
AS AT AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Cost, beginning of year  .................................... $ 8,278 $ 7,292 $ 18,866 $ 9,285 $ 15,405 $ 14,679 $ 9,086 $ 8,184 $ 51,635 $ 39,440 
Additions, net of disposals and assets 
reclassified as held for sale     ..............................  572  547  867  606  480  407  818  918  2,737  2,478 
Acquisitions through business combinations     ..  —  118  —  8,811  —  —  4,141  35  4,141  8,964 
Foreign currency translation and other     ............  (270)  321  (330)  164  (1,127)  319  (226)  (51)  (1,953)  753 
Cost, end of year    ..............................................  8,580  8,278  19,403  18,866  14,758  15,405  13,819  9,086  56,560  51,635 
Accumulated fair value changes, beginning of 
year   ..................................................................  1,894  1,624  1,410  1,104  833  523  —  —  4,137  3,251 
Disposition and assets reclassified as held for 
sale   ...................................................................  —  —  —  —  —  —  (4)  —  (4)  — 
Fair value changes  ...........................................  120  143  92  330  1,189  312  12  —  1,413  785 
Foreign currency translation and other     ............  (57)  127  (69)  (24)  (1)  (2)  —  —  (127)  101 
Accumulated fair value changes, end of year  ..  1,957  1,894  1,433  1,410  2,021  833  8  —  5,419  4,137 
Accumulated depreciation, beginning of year    .  (1,836)  (1,456)  (2,605)  (2,040)  (1,538)  (982)  (1,247)  (920)  (7,226)  (5,398) 
Depreciation expenses     .....................................  (413)  (392)  (1,003)  (601)  (629)  (557)  (775)  (419)  (2,820)  (1,969) 
Dispositions and assets reclassified as held 
for sale    .............................................................  109  72  103  82  101  30  28  90  341  274 
Foreign currency translation and other     ............  70  (60)  128  (46)  120  (29)  33  2  351  (133) 
Accumulated depreciation, end of year     ...........  (2,070)  (1,836)  (3,377)  (2,605)  (1,946)  (1,538)  (1,961)  (1,247)  (9,354)  (7,226) 
Balance, end of year    ........................................ $ 8,467 $ 8,336 $ 17,459 $ 17,671 $ 14,833 $ 14,700 $ 11,866 $ 7,839 $ 52,625 $ 48,546 
Infrastructure’s PP&E assets are accounted for under the revaluation model, and the most recent date of revaluation was 
December 31, 2024. The utilities assets consist of regulated transmission and regulated distribution networks, which are 
operated primarily under regulated rate base arrangements. In the transport operations, the PP&E assets consist of railroads, toll 
roads and ports. PP&E assets in the midstream operations are comprised of energy transmission, distribution and storage. Data 
PP&E include mainly telecommunications towers, fiber optic networks and data storage assets. 
Valuations utilize significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) when determining the fair value of infrastructure’s utilities, 
transport, midstream and data assets. The significant Level 3 inputs include:
Valuation 
Technique
Significant 
Unobservable Inputs
Relationship of Unobservable 
Inputs to Fair Value  Mitigating Factors
Discounted cash 
flow analysis
• Future cash flows • Increases (decreases) in future 
cash flows increase (decrease) 
fair value
• Increases (decreases) in cash flows tend to 
be accompanied by increases (decreases) in 
discount rates that may offset changes in 
fair value from cash flows
• Discount rate • Increases (decreases) in 
discount rate decrease 
(increase) fair value
• Increases (decreases) in discount rates tend 
to be accompanied by increases (decreases) 
in cash flows that may offset changes in fair 
value from discount rates
• Terminal value 
multiple
• Increases (decreases) in 
terminal value multiple 
increases (decreases) fair value
• Increases (decreases) in terminal value 
multiple tend to be accompanied by 
increases (decreases) in cash flows that may 
offset changes in fair value from terminal 
value multiple
• Investment horizon • Increases (decreases) in the 
investment horizon decrease 
(increase) fair value
• Increases (decreases) in the investment 
horizon tend to be the result of changing 
cash flow profiles that may result in higher 
(lower) growth in cash flows prior to 
stabilizing in the terminal year
198 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

Key valuation metrics of the company’s utilities, transport, and midstream assets at the end of 2024 and 2023 are summarized 
below.
Utilities Transport Midstream
AS AT DEC. 31 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Discount rates    ...................................................... 8% – 15% 8% – 11% 10% 9 % 15% 15%
Terminal value multiples    ..................................... 16x 15x 9x – 20x 8x – 20x 8x – 10x 10x
Investment horizon    .............................................. 10 – 20 yrs 10 – 20 yrs 10 yrs 10 yrs 1 – 2 yrs 6 yrs
c) Private Equity
Private Equity PP&E primarily includes assets owned by the company’s Private Equity segment. These assets are accounted for 
under the cost model, which requires the assets to be carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated 
impairment losses. The following table presents the changes to the carrying value of the company’s PP&E assets included in 
these businesses:
Cost
Accumulated 
Impairment
Accumulated 
Depreciation Total
AS AT AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Balance, beginning of year    .................... $ 22,470 $ 21,548 $ (701) $ (611) $ (5,934) $ (5,271) $ 15,835 $ 15,666 
Additions/(dispositions)1, net of assets 
reclassified as held for sale   ....................  (1,908)  (137)  307  93  1,960  1,469  359  1,425 
Acquisitions through business 
combinations   .........................................  32  239  —  —  —  —  32  239 
Foreign currency translation and other  ..  (1,277)  820  12  (9)  257  (234)  (1,008)  577 
Depreciation expenses    ...........................  —  —  —  —  (1,664)  (1,898)  (1,664)  (1,898) 
Impairment charges     ...............................  —  —  (167)  (174)  —  —  (167)  (174) 
Balance, end of year    .............................. $ 19,317 $ 22,470 $ (549) $ (701) $ (5,381) $ (5,934) $ 13,387 $ 15,835 
1. For accumulated impairment and accumulated depreciation, (additions)/dispositions.
d) Real Estate (Core and Transitional & Development)
Cost
Accumulated Fair 
Value Changes
Accumulated 
Depreciation Total
AS AT AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Balance, beginning of year    ................... $ 543 $ 562 $ 50 $ 58 $ (248) $ (236) $ 345 $ 384 
Additions/(dispositions)1, net of assets 
reclassified as held for sale   ...................  13  (19)  —  —  48  30  61  11 
Foreign currency translation and other  .  (11)  —  —  24  8  1  (3)  25 
Fair value changes   ................................  —  —  (21)  (32)  —  —  (21)  (32) 
Depreciation expenses    ..........................  —  —  —  —  (47)  (43)  (47)  (43) 
Impairment charges     ..............................  —  —  (20)  —  —  —  (20)  — 
Balance, end of year    ............................. $ 545 $ 543 $ 9 $ 50 $ (239) $ (248) $ 315 $ 345 
1. For accumulated depreciation, (additions)/dispositions.
The company’s Real Estate core and transitional and development PP&E assets include assets accounted for under the 
revaluation model, with the most recent revaluation as at December 31, 2024. The company determined fair value for these 
assets by using the depreciated replacement cost method. Valuations utilize significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) when 
determining the fair value of Real Estate assets. The significant Level 3 inputs include estimates of assets’ replacement cost and 
remaining economic life.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 199

e) Real Estate LP Investments and Other
PP&E within the segment primarily consists of our hospitality portfolio within our real estate LP investments, accounted for 
under the revaluation model, with the most recent revaluation as at December 31, 2024. The company determined fair value for 
these assets by using the depreciated replacement cost method. Valuations utilize significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) 
when determining the fair value of the assets. The significant Level 3 inputs include estimates of assets’ replacement cost and 
remaining economic life. The following table presents the changes to the carrying value of the company’s PP&E assets 
included in these businesses:
Cost
Accumulated Fair 
Value Changes
Accumulated 
Depreciation Total
AS AT AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Balance, beginning of year    .................... $ 16,663 $ 16,281 $ 2,464 $ 1,506 $ (2,587) $ (2,105) $ 16,540 $ 15,682 
Changes in basis of accounting1
 ............  (4,668)  —  (476)  —  304  —  (4,840)  — 
Additions/(dispositions)2, net of assets 
reclassified as held for sale   ....................  (634)  613  (234)  (34)  359  106  (509)  685 
Acquisitions through business 
combinations   .........................................  45  —  —  —  —  —  45  — 
Foreign currency translation and other  ..  (301)  (231)  (36)  86  81  72  (256)  (73) 
Fair value changes   .................................  —  20  976  —  —  20  976 
Depreciation expenses    ...........................  —  —  —  —  (660)  (660)  (660)  (660) 
Impairment charges     ...............................  —  —  (62)  (70)  —  —  (62)  (70) 
Balance, end of year    .............................. $ 11,105 $ 16,663 $ 1,676 $ 2,464 $ (2,503) $ (2,587) $ 10,278 $ 16,540 
1. Following the completion of the partial sale of BSREP IV to BWS, our investment in BSREP IV was deconsolidated and recognized within equity accounted 
investments. BN was issued additional Class C shares in BWS as consideration for the acquisition by BWS.
2. For accumulated depreciation, (additions)/dispositions.
200 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

13. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
The following table presents a continuity of the company’s intangible assets:
Cost
Accumulated 
Amortization and 
Impairment Total
AS AT AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Balance, beginning of year   ......................................... $ 46,592 $ 44,409 $ (7,598) $ (5,998) $ 38,994 $ 38,411 
Additions   .....................................................................  614  899  —  —  614  899 
Disposals1
  ....................................................................  (714)  (3,989)  306  1,243  (408)  (2,746) 
Acquisitions through business combinations     ..............  1,632  4,096  —  —  1,632  4,096 
Amortization and impairment     .....................................  —  —  (2,520)  (2,653)  (2,520)  (2,653) 
Foreign currency translation and other   .......................  (2,873)  1,177  633  (190)  (2,240)  987 
Balance, end of year  .................................................... $ 45,251 $ 46,592 $ (9,179) $ (7,598) $ 36,072 $ 38,994 
1. Includes assets sold and amounts reclassified to held for sale.
Intangible assets are allocated to the following operating segments:
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) Note 2024 2023
Private Equity    ..................................................................................................................................... (a) $ 18,907 $ 21,217 
Infrastructure      ...................................................................................................................................... (b)  15,682  15,845 
Real Estate (LP Investments) and Other1
    ........................................................................................... (c)  1,483  1,932 
$ 36,072 $ 38,994 
1. Real estate LP investments are included within our Asset Management segment as we include the discretionary capital that we invest directly into and alongside private 
funds managed by BAM and other investments within this segment.
a)   Private Equity
The intangible assets in our Private Equity segment are primarily related to:
• Customer relationships of $11.1 billion (2023 – $12.4 billion), which decreased from the prior year primarily due to the 
impact of foreign exchange. The customer relationships are attributable to the acquisitions of our modular building leasing 
services, lottery services operations, advanced energy storage operations, dealer software and technology services 
operations and engineered components manufacturing operation. The customer relationships acquired have a useful life of 
10 to 20 years.
• Brands and trademarks of $2.7 billion (2023 – $2.9 billion), which decreased from the prior year mainly due to the impact 
of foreign exchange. The brands and trademarks are attributable to our dealer software and technology services operations, 
modular building leasing services operations, advanced energy storage operations, engineered components manufacturing 
operations, fleet management and car rental services, and lottery services operations. The majority have an indefinite 
useful life and the remainder have a useful life of 10 to 40 years.
• Water and sewage concession agreements, the majority of which are arrangements with municipal governments across 
Brazil, of $1.8 billion (2023 – $2.4 billion) decreased from the prior year primarily due to the impact of foreign exchange. 
The concession agreements provide the company the right to charge fees to users over the terms of the agreements in 
exchange for water treatment services, ongoing and regular maintenance work on water distribution assets and 
improvements to the water treatment and distribution systems. The concession agreements have an average remaining term 
of 22 years at which point the underlying concession assets will be returned to the various grantors. 
• Computer software and proprietary technology of $1.8 billion (2023 – $2.2 billion), which decreased from the prior year 
mainly due to dispositions completed in the year. The proprietary technology pertains to the combination of processes, 
tools, techniques and developed systems for exclusive use and benefit within the Private Equity business. The proprietary 
technology is attributable to our advanced energy storage operation, engineered components manufacturing operation and 
dealer software and technology services operation, and is assessed to have an estimated useful life of 5 to 15 years.
• The remaining intangible assets in our Private Equity segment relate to other indefinite life assets.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 201

b) Infrastructure 
The intangible assets in our Infrastructure segment are primarily related to:
• Contractual customer relationships, customer contracts, proprietary technology and brands of $4.2 billion (2023 – 
$4.5 billion) at our North American and European residential decarbonization infrastructure operations. The contractual 
customer relationships and customer contracts represent ongoing economic benefits from leasing customers and annuity-
based management agreements. This business generates revenue under long-term contracts with a diversified customer 
base across North America and Europe.
• Concession arrangements of $2.3 billion (2023 – $3.0 billion) at our Brazilian regulated transmission operation that 
provide the right to charge a tariff over the terms of the agreements. On April 8, 2021, new legislation was passed in Brazil 
which extended these finite authorizations in perpetuity. These assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over the 
estimated useful life of the underlying infrastructure.
• Customer relationships and shipping agreements of $1.7 billion (2023 – $2.1 billion) at our Canadian diversified 
midstream operation, relating to long-term take-or-pay and fee-for-service contractual arrangements. These agreements are 
with investment grade counterparties. These assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life.
• Customer relationships, operating network agreements and track access rights of $1.7 billion (2023 – $1.7 billion) at our 
North American rail operations. These intangible assets include long-term leases.
• Customer contracts of $1.2 billion (2023 – $652 million) at our Indian telecom tower operation relate to contracts with 
India’s largest cellular network operator, which is an anchor tenant of our telecom tower operation under a 30-year master 
service agreement. 
• Concession arrangement of $1.0 billion (2023 – $505 million) at our Brazilian electricity transmission concession, which 
grants the right to construct, maintain, and operate the transmission lines in exchange for a regulated return during the 
concession period. 
• The remaining intangible assets in our Infrastructure segment relate to other indefinite life assets.
c) Real Estate LP Investments and Other
The intangible assets in real estate LP Investments are primarily attributable to indefinite life trademarks associated with our 
real estate LP investments, including short-break destinations across the U.K. and Ireland (“U.K. Short Stay”). The U.K. Short 
Stay trademark assets have been determined to have an indefinite useful life as the company has the legal right to operate these 
trademarks exclusively in certain territories and in perpetuity.
Inputs Used to Determine Recoverable Amounts of Intangible Assets
We test finite life intangible assets for impairment when an impairment indicator is identified. Indefinite life intangible assets 
are tested for impairment annually. We use a discounted cash flow valuation to determine the recoverable amount and consider 
the following significant unobservable inputs as part of our valuation:
Valuation 
Technique
Significant 
Unobservable Input(s)
Relationship of 
Unobservable Input(s) to 
Fair Value Mitigating Factor(s)
Discounted cash 
flow models
• Future cash flows • Increases (decreases) in 
future cash flows increase 
(decrease) the recoverable 
amount
• Increases (decreases) in cash flows tend to be 
accompanied by increases (decreases) in 
discount rates that may offset changes in 
recoverable amounts from cash flows
• Discount rate • Increases (decreases) in 
discount rate decrease 
(increase) the recoverable 
amount
• Increases (decreases) in discount rates tend to 
be accompanied by increases (decreases) in 
cash flows that may offset changes in 
recoverable amounts from discount rates
• Terminal capitalization 
rate
• Increases (decreases) in 
terminal capitalization rate 
decrease (increase) the 
recoverable amount
• Increases (decreases) in terminal capitalization 
rates tend to be accompanied by increases 
(decreases) in cash flows that may offset 
changes in recoverable amounts from terminal 
capitalization rates
• Investment horizon • Increases (decreases) in the 
investment horizon 
decrease (increase) the 
recoverable amount
• Increases (decreases) in the investment horizon 
tend to be the result of changing cash flow 
profiles that may result in higher (lower) 
growth in cash flows prior to stabilizing in the 
terminal year
202 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

14. GOODWILL
The following table presents the balance and nature of the changes in goodwill:
Cost
Accumulated 
Impairment Total
AS AT AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Balance, beginning of year   ....................................... $ 36,758 $ 29,767 $ (1,847) $ (1,105) $ 34,911 $ 28,662 
Acquisitions through business combinations     ............  3,899  7,211  —  —  3,899  7,211 
Impairment losses     .....................................................  —  —  (828)  (659)  (828)  (659) 
Foreign currency translation and other1
      ....................  (2,386)  (220)  134  (83)  (2,252)  (303) 
Balance, end of year  .................................................. $ 38,271 $ 36,758 $ (2,541) $ (1,847) $ 35,730 $ 34,911 
1. Includes adjustment to goodwill based on final purchase price allocation.
Goodwill is allocated to the following operating segments:
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) Note 2024 2023
Infrastructure    ....................................................................................................................................... (a) $ 14,209 $ 14,487 
Private Equity  ...................................................................................................................................... (b)  12,726  14,396 
Renewable Power and Transition     ....................................................................................................... (c)  6,903  3,335 
Real Estate (LP Investments) and Other1
   ............................................................................................ (d)  1,855  2,674 
Real Estate (Core and Transitional & Development)1
   ........................................................................  37  19 
Total      .................................................................................................................................................... $ 35,730 $ 34,911 
1. Real estate core and transitional and development investments are included in our Real Estate segment. Real estate LP investments are included within our Asset 
Management segment as we include the discretionary capital that we invest directly into and alongside private funds managed by BAM and other investments within 
this segment.
a) Infrastructure
Goodwill in our Infrastructure segment decreased from the prior year primarily as incremental goodwill from the acquisition of 
our Indian telecom tower operation was more than offset by the impact of foreign exchange.
A discounted cash flow model was used to determine the recoverable amount of goodwill. The key inputs are discount rates 
ranging from 10% to 20%, terminal value multiples of 7x to 21x and cash flow periods from 1  to 26 years. The recoverable 
amounts for the years ended 2024 and 2023 were determined to be in excess of their carrying values.
b) Private Equity
Goodwill in our Private Equity segment decreased from the prior year primarily due to the deconsolidation of our payment 
processing services operation, goodwill impairment at our healthcare services operation, and the impact of foreign exchange. 
For the remaining goodwill balance, the recoverable amounts for the years ended 2024  and 2023 were determined to be in 
excess of their carrying values.
The key inputs are revenue growth rates ranging from 4.6% to 12.1%, discount rates of 8.7% to 11.9% and perpetuity growth 
rates of 0.8% to 3.0%. These assumptions and inputs are forecasted over a period of 5 years except for specific cases.
c) Renewable Power and Transition
Goodwill in our Renewable Power and Transition segment includes a hydroelectric portfolio and distributed generation and 
utility-scale solar portfolios. The increase in goodwill was primarily due to the acquisition of a leading listed global renewables 
developer headquartered in France.
The goodwill on the hydroelectric portfolio arose from the inclusion of a deferred tax liability as the tax bases of the net assets 
acquired were lower than their fair values. The goodwill is recoverable as long as the tax circumstances that gave rise to the 
goodwill do not change. To date, no such changes have occurred. For the remaining goodwill balance, the recoverable amounts 
for the years ended 2024  and 2023 were determined to be in excess of their carrying values. The key inputs are discount rates 
ranging from 10% to 14%, terminal capitalization rate of 3x to 5x, cash flow periods from 2 to 7 years and future leverage 
assumptions of the operating segment. 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 203

(d) Real Estate LP Investments and Other
Goodwill in real estate LP investments and other is primarily comprised of our real estate LP investments, including U.K. and 
Ireland Short Stay and a mixed-use asset in South Korea, and our Private Equity direct investments. The decrease in goodwill 
was primarily due to the deconsolidation of BSREP IV.
The valuation assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount for U.K. and Ireland Short Stay were a discount rate of 
11.4% based on a market-based-weighted-average cost of capital, terminal capitalization rate of 6.0% and a long-term growth 
rate of 3.0%. The recoverable amounts for the years ended 2024 and 2023 were determined to be in excess of their carrying 
values.
Inputs used to Determine Recoverable Amounts of Goodwill 
The recoverable amounts used in goodwill impairment testing are calculated using discounted cash flow models based on 
the following significant unobservable inputs:
Valuation 
Technique
Significant 
Unobservable Input(s)
Relationship of Unobservable Input(s) to 
Fair Value Mitigating Factor(s)
Discounted 
cash flow 
models
• Future cash flows • Increases (decreases) in future cash 
flows increase (decrease) the 
recoverable amount
• Increases (decreases) in cash flows tend 
to be accompanied by increases 
(decreases) in discount rates that may 
offset changes in recoverable amounts 
from cash flows
• Discount rate • Increases (decreases) in discount rate 
decrease (increase) the recoverable 
amount
• Increases (decreases) in discount rates 
tend to be accompanied by increases 
(decreases) in cash flows that may offset 
changes in recoverable amounts from 
discount rates
• Terminal capitalization 
rate/multiple
• Increases (decreases) in terminal 
capitalization rate/multiple decrease 
(increase) the recoverable amount
• Increases (decreases) in terminal 
capitalization rates/multiple tend to be 
accompanied by increases (decreases) in 
cash flows that may offset changes in 
recoverable amounts from terminal 
capitalization rates
• Investment horizon/
terminal year of cash 
flows
• Increases (decreases) in the investment 
horizon/terminal year of cash flows 
decrease (increase) the recoverable 
amount
• Increases (decreases) in the investment 
horizon/terminal year of cash flows tend 
to be the result of changing cash flow 
profiles that may result in higher (lower) 
growth in cash flows prior to stabilizing 
in the terminal year
15. INCOME TAXES
The major components of income tax expense for the years ended  December 31, 2024 and 2023 are set out below:
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Current income tax expense    ............................................................................................................................... $ 1,323 $ 1,908 
Deferred income tax (recovery)/expense
Origination and reversal of temporary differences   .........................................................................................  (319)  (789) 
Recovery arising from previously unrecognized tax assets    ............................................................................  (23)  (116) 
Change in tax rates and new legislation   ..........................................................................................................  1  8 
Total deferred income tax (recovery)/expense     ..................................................................................................  (341)  (897) 
Income tax expense   ............................................................................................................................................ $ 982 $ 1,011 
204 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

The company’s Canadian domestic statutory income tax rate has remained consistent at 26% throughout both of 2024 and 
2023. The company’s effective income tax rate is different from the company’s domestic statutory income tax rate due to the 
following differences set out below: 
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31 2024 2023
Statutory income tax rate     ...................................................................................................................................  26%  26% 
(Reduction)/increase in rate resulting from:
Portion of gains subject to different tax rates     .................................................................................................  (15)  (8) 
Taxable loss (income) attributable to non-controlling interests     .....................................................................  24  (6) 
International operations subject to different tax rates  .....................................................................................  1  1 
Recognition of deferred tax assets  ..................................................................................................................  (19)  (5) 
Non-recognition of the benefit of current year’s tax losses      ............................................................................  14  5 
Non-deductible expenses     ................................................................................................................................  10  7 
Investment and production tax credits   ............................................................................................................  (10)  — 
Other    ...............................................................................................................................................................  4  (3) 
Effective income tax rate   ...................................................................................................................................  35%  17% 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities as at December 31, 2024 and 2023 relate to the following:
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Non-capital losses (Canada)    .............................................................................................................................. $ 1,922 $ 2,132 
Capital losses (Canada)    ......................................................................................................................................  12  5 
Losses (U.S.)     ......................................................................................................................................................  2,833  3,472 
Losses (International) .........................................................................................................................................  2,360  2,900 
Difference in basis      .............................................................................................................................................  (28,672)  (30,158) 
Total net deferred tax liabilities  ......................................................................................................................... $ (21,545) $ (21,649) 
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities 
have not been recognized as at December 31, 2024 is approximately $18 billion (2023 – approximately $18 billion).
The company regularly assesses the status of open tax examinations and its historical tax filing positions for the potential for 
adverse outcomes to determine the adequacy of the provision for income and other taxes. The company believes that it has 
adequately provided for any tax adjustments that are more likely than not to occur as a result of ongoing tax examinations or 
historical filing positions.
The dividend payment on certain preferred shares of the company results in the payment of cash taxes in Canada and the 
company obtaining a deduction based on the amount of these taxes.
The following table details the expiry date, if applicable, of the unrecognized deferred tax assets:
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
One year from reporting date    ............................................................................................................................. $ 32 $ 10 
Two years from reporting date  ...........................................................................................................................  31  13 
Three years from reporting date   .........................................................................................................................  24  17 
After three years from reporting date .................................................................................................................  465  667 
Do not expire  ......................................................................................................................................................  2,661  2,212 
Total      ................................................................................................................................................................... $ 3,213 $ 2,919 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 205

The components of the income taxes in other comprehensive income for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 are set 
out below:
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Revaluation of property, plant and equipment   ................................................................................................... $ 1,949 $ 120 
Financial contracts and power sale agreements     .................................................................................................  (116)  (29) 
Fair value through OCI securities     ......................................................................................................................  160  76 
Foreign currency translation      ..............................................................................................................................  (1)  (72) 
Revaluation of pension obligation     .....................................................................................................................  29  5 
Total deferred tax in other comprehensive income  ............................................................................................ $ 2,021 $ 100 
16. CORPORATE BORROWINGS
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) Maturity Annual Rate Currency 2024 2023
Term debt
Public – Canadian  ............................................................... Mar. 8, 2024  5.04 % C$ $ — $ 377 
Public – U.S. ....................................................................... Apr. 1 , 2024  4.00 % US$  —  200 
Public – U.S1
      ...................................................................... Jan. 15, 2025  4.00 % US$  500  500 
Public – Canadian  ............................................................... Jan. 28, 2026  4.82 % C$  592  645 
Public – U.S. ....................................................................... Jun. 2, 2026  4.25 % US$  499  499 
Public – Canadian  ............................................................... Mar. 16, 2027  3.80 % C$  348  377 
Public – U.S. ....................................................................... Jan. 25, 2028  3.90 % US$  1,064  1,067 
Public – U.S. ....................................................................... Mar. 29, 2029  4.85 % US$  999  999 
Public – U.S. ....................................................................... Apr. 15, 2030  4.35 % US$  750  750 
Public – U.S. ....................................................................... Apr. 15, 2031  2.72 % US$  500  500 
Public – U.S. ....................................................................... Jan. 30, 2032  2.34 % US$  600  600 
Public – Canadian  ............................................................... Dec. 14 2032  5.43 % C$  695  755 
Public – U.S. ....................................................................... Mar. 1, 2033  7.38 % US$  250  250 
Public – U.S. ....................................................................... Jun. 14, 2033  6.09 % US$  550  550 
Public – U.S. ....................................................................... Jan. 5, 2034  6.35 % US$  700  700 
Public – U.S. ....................................................................... Jan. 15, 2035  5.68 % US$  450  — 
Public – Canadian  ............................................................... Jun. 14, 2035  5.95 % C$  294  319 
Private – Japanese     .............................................................. Dec. 1, 2038  1.42 % JPY  64  71 
Public – U.S. ....................................................................... Sep. 20, 2047  4.70 % US$  902  902 
Public – U.S. ....................................................................... Apr. 15, 2050  3.45% US$  595  595 
Public – U.S. ....................................................................... Mar. 30, 2051  3.50% US$  757  758 
Public – U.S. ....................................................................... Feb 15, 2052  3.63% US$  400  400 
Public – U.S. ....................................................................... Mar. 4, 2054  5.97% US$  953  — 
Public – U.S. ....................................................................... Jan 15, 2055  6.30% US$  700  — 
Public – U.S. ....................................................................... Oct. 16, 2080  4.63% US$  400  400 
 13,562  12,214 
Commercial Paper    .............................................................................................................................................  767  31 
Deferred financing costs2
   ..................................................................................................................................  (97)  (85) 
Total    .................................................................................................................................................................. $ 14,232 $ 12,160 
1. Corporate borrowings of $500 million due on January 15, 2025 were repaid subsequent to December 31, 2024.
2. Deferred financing costs are amortized to interest expense over the term of the borrowing using the effective interest method.
Corporate borrowings, excluding revolving facilities, have a weighted-average interest rate of 4.7% (2023 – 4.5%). A portion 
of corporate borrowings are denominated in foreign currencies, which include C$2.8 billion (2023 – C$3.3 billion) payable 
in Canadian dollars or $1.9 billion (2023 – $2.5 billion) and ¥10 billion (2023 – ¥10 billion) payable in Japanese Yen or 
$64 million (2023 – $71 million).
206 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

17. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND OTHER
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Accounts payable    ............................................................................................................................................... $ 13,202 $ 13,470 
Lease liabilities    ..................................................................................................................................................  9,801  8,882 
Provisions   ...........................................................................................................................................................  3,845  3,457 
Other liabilities ...................................................................................................................................................  28,654  33,084 
Total      ................................................................................................................................................................... $ 55,502 $ 58,893 
The current and non-current balances of accounts payable, provisions and other liabilities are as follows:
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Current    ............................................................................................................................................................... $ 30,125 $ 33,414 
Non-current    ........................................................................................................................................................  25,377  25,479 
Total      ................................................................................................................................................................... $ 55,502 $ 58,893 Post-Employment Benefits
The company offers pension and other post-employment benefit plans to employees of certain of its subsidiaries. The 
company’s obligations under its defined benefit pension plans are determined periodically through the preparation of actuarial 
valuations. The benefit plans’ valuation change during the year was an increase of $118 million (2023 – decrease of 
$11 million). The discount rate used was 5% (2023 – 5%) with a rate of compensation of 2% (2023 – 2%), and an investment 
rate of 5% (2023 – 5%).
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Plan assets       .......................................................................................................................................................... $ 1,300 $ 1,380 
Less accrued benefit obligation:
Defined benefit pension plan     ..........................................................................................................................  (1,384)  (1,583) 
Other post-employment benefits    .....................................................................................................................  (100)  (131) 
Net liability    ........................................................................................................................................................  (184)  (334) 
Less: net actuarial (losses) gains and other ........................................................................................................  (6)  6 
Accrued benefit liability   .................................................................................................................................... $ (190) $ (328) 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 207

18. NON-RECOURSE BORROWINGS OF MANAGED ENTITIES
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) Note 2024 2023
Subsidiary borrowings     ........................................................................................................................ (a) $ 16,002 $ 16,214 
Property-specific borrowings    ............................................................................................................. (b)  204,558  205,336 
Total    .................................................................................................................................................... $ 220,560 $ 221,550 
a) Subsidiary Borrowings 
Principal repayments on subsidiary borrowings due over the next five calendar years and thereafter are as follows:
(MILLIONS) Real Estate
Renewable 
Power and 
Transition Infrastructure
Private 
Equity Total
2025   ........................................................................... $ 678 $ 709 $ 850 $ 13 $ 2,250 
2026   ...........................................................................  348  —  —  123  471 
2027   ...........................................................................  931  348  313  —  1,592 
2028   ...........................................................................  348  —  487  —  835 
2029   ...........................................................................  2,604  570  787  2,150  6,111 
Thereafter     ..................................................................  499  2,190  2,133  —  4,822 
Total Principal repayments ........................................  5,408  3,817  4,570  2,286  16,081 
Deferred financing costs and other   ............................  (26)  (16)  (29)  (8)  (79) 
Total – Dec. 31, 2024    ............................................... $ 5,382 $ 3,801 $ 4,541 $ 2,278 $ 16,002 
Total – Dec. 31, 2023   ................................................ $ 6,882 $ 2,832 $ 4,911 $ 1,589 $ 16,214 
The weighted-average interest rate on subsidiary borrowings as at December 31, 2024 was 5.6% (2023 – 5.7%).
The current and non-current balances of subsidiary borrowings are as follows:
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Current    ............................................................................................................................................................... $ 2,250 $ 2,596 
Non-current    ........................................................................................................................................................  13,752  13,618 
Total      ................................................................................................................................................................... $ 16,002 $ 16,214 
Subsidiary borrowings by currency include the following:
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 Local Currency 2023 Local Currency
U.S. dollars .................................................................. $ 8,239 USD  8,239 $ 7,915 USD  7,915 
Canadian dollars ..........................................................  7,627 CAD  10,970  8,208 CAD  10,875 
Brazilian reais     .............................................................  136 BRL  839  91 BRL  443 
Total      ............................................................................ $ 16,002 $ 16,214 
208 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

b) Property-Specific Borrowings
Principal repayments on property-specific borrowings due over the next five calendar years and thereafter are as follows:
(MILLIONS) Real Estate1,2,3
Renewable 
Power and 
Transition Infrastructure
Private Equity 
and Other Total
2025    ................................................................... $ 32,428 $ 9,232 $ 4,189 $ 2,405 $ 48,254 
2026    ...................................................................  13,045  4,936  4,827  4,524  27,332 
2027    ...................................................................  8,517  2,863  4,983  5,356  21,719 
2028    ...................................................................  2,908  3,007  5,077  7,442  18,434 
2029    ...................................................................  8,195  3,799  6,731  11,040  29,765 
Thereafter   ...........................................................  5,472  14,666  30,634  10,831  61,603 
Total Principal repayments    ................................  70,565  38,503  56,441  41,598  207,107 
Deferred financing costs and other   ....................  (389)  (354)  (1,143)  (663)  (2,549) 
Total – Dec. 31, 2024   ........................................ $ 70,176 $ 38,149 $ 55,298 $ 40,935 $ 204,558 
Total – Dec. 31, 2023      ....................................... $ 86,734 $ 28,635 $ 46,083 $ 43,884 $ 205,336 
1. Real estate property-specific borrowings maturing in 2025 of $32.4 billion include office of $6.7 billion, retail of $5.6 billion, and LP investments and other of 
$20.1 billion. Real estate property-specific borrowings maturing in 2026 of $13.0 billion include office of $2.8 billion, retail of $1.7 billion, and LP investments and other 
of $8.5 billion. The real estate property-specific borrowings included in the table above do not consider available extension options on $25.7 billion of debt.
2. Includes $45.8 billion of borrowings associated with real estate LP investments from our Asset Management segment and $24.4 million associated with core and 
transitional and development investments in our Real Estate segment.
3. Real estate property-specific borrowings of $70.2 billion includes $35.4 billion related to BPY investment properties, $7.9 billion for BPY hospitality assets, and 
$26.9 billion for real estate direct investments.
The weighted-average interest rate on property-specific borrowings as at December 31, 2024 was 6.8% (2023 – 7.1%).
The current and non-current balances of property-specific borrowings are as follows:
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 20241 2023
Current    ............................................................................................................................................................... $ 48,254 $ 54,975 
Non-current    ........................................................................................................................................................  156,304  150,361 
Total      ................................................................................................................................................................... $ 204,558 $ 205,336 
1. At December 31, 2024, non-current property-specific borrowings of $156.3 billion had $20.1 billion (December 31, 2023 – $26.6 billion) of debt obligations, which were 
classified as non-current but are subject to covenants that are required to be complied with during the twelve months following the reporting date.
Property-specific borrowings by currency include the following:
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 Local Currency 2023 Local Currency
U.S. dollars ................................................................ $ 119,612 USD  119,612 $ 112,510 USD  112,510 
British pounds      ...........................................................  12,583 GBP  10,054  13,457 GBP  10,571 
Indian rupees     .............................................................  10,911 INR  934,088  9,930 INR  826,265 
Canadian dollars ........................................................  15,830 CAD  22,767  17,124 CAD  22,690 
Euros     .........................................................................  17,164 EUR  16,578  22,825 EUR  20,670 
Australian dollars    ......................................................  9,498 AUD  15,350  10,051 AUD  14,755 
Brazilian reais     ...........................................................  10,634 BRL  65,848  10,868 BRL  52,606 
Colombian pesos   .......................................................  3,533 COP  15,566,206  3,334 COP
 12,914,945 
Korean won     ...............................................................  2,185 KRW  3,230,442  2,199 KRW  2,855,358 
Other currencies    ........................................................  2,608 Various n/a  3,038 Various n/a
Total      .......................................................................... $ 204,558 $ 205,336 
 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 209

19. SUBSIDIARY EQUITY OBLIGATIONS
Subsidiary equity obligations consist of the following:
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) Note 2024 2023
Subsidiary preferred shares and capital     .............................................................................................. (a) $ 3,578 $ 2,257 
Subsidiary preferred equity units  ........................................................................................................ (b)  1,042  1,625 
Limited-life funds and redeemable fund units   .................................................................................... (c)  139  263 
Total    .................................................................................................................................................... $ 4,759 $ 4,145 
a) Subsidiary Preferred Shares and Capital
Preferred shares are classified as liabilities if the holders of the preferred shares have the right, after a fixed date, to convert 
the shares into common equity of the issuer based on the market price of the common equity of the issuer at that time unless 
they are previously redeemed by the issuer. The dividends paid on these securities are recorded in interest expense. As at 
December 31, 2024 and 2023, the balances consist of the following: 
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE INFORMATION)
Shares 
Outstanding
Cumulative 
Dividend Rate
Local 
Currency 2024 2023
India Infrastructure Investment Trusts     ........................................  664,000,000 See footnote1 INR $ 1,906 $ 1,138 
Brookfield India Real Estate Trust (“BIRET”)   ...........................  414,972,231 See footnote1 US$  1,392  729 
Rouse Series A preferred shares    ..................................................  5,600,000  5.00% US$  158  145 
BSREP V Iron REIT L.P. Preferred Shares  ................................ n/a  5.00% US$  69  — 
Alstria Office Prime Portfolio GmbH & Co. KG    ........................ n/a n/a EUR€  —  109 
BIP Investment Corporation Series 1 Senior preferred shares     .... n/a n/a C$  —  73 
Brookfield Property Split Corp. (“BOP Split”) 
senior preferred shares
Series 1    ......................................................................................  568,066  5.25% US$  14  16 
Series 2    ......................................................................................  253,017  5.75% C$  4  7 
Series 3    ......................................................................................  333,730  5.00% C$  6  8 
Series 4    ......................................................................................  272,261  5.20% C$  5  7 
BSREP III U.S. Senior Living Investment     .................................. n/a n/a US$  24  25 
Total    ...................................................................................................................................................................... $ 3,578 $ 2,257 
1. The dividend rate pertaining to India Infrastructure Investment Trusts and BIRET is equal to a minimum of 90% of net distributable cash flows. 
Subsidiary preferred capital also includes $1.9 billion as at December 31, 2024 (2023 – $1.1 billion) of preferred equity 
interests held by third-party investors in India Infrastructure Investment Trusts, which have been classified as liabilities, as a 
result of contractual obligations to make distributions at an amount no less than 90% of net distributable cash flows.
Subsidiary preferred capital includes $1.4 billion as at December 31, 2024 (2023 – $729 million) of preferred equity interests 
held by third-party investors in BIRET, which have been classified as a liability, due to the fact BIRET has a contractual 
obligation to make distributions to unitholders every six months at an amount no less than 90% of net distributable cash flows. 
Subsidiary preferred shares include $158 million as at December 31, 2024 (2023 – $145 million) of preferred equity interests 
held by a third-party investor in Rouse Properties, L.P., which have been classified as a liability, due to the fact that the 
interests are mandatorily redeemable on or after November 12, 2025 for a set price per unit plus any accrued but unpaid 
distributions; distributions are capped and accrue regardless of available cash generated.
210 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

b) Subsidiary Preferred Equity Units
In 2014, BPY issued $1.8 billion of exchangeable preferred equity units in three $600 million tranches redeemable in 2021, 
2024 and 2026, respectively. The preferred equity units were originally exchangeable into equity units of BPY at $25.70 
per unit, at the option of the holder, at any time up to and including the maturity date. Following the privatization of BPY 
(“BPY privatization”), the preferred equity units became exchangeable into cash equal to the value of the consideration that 
would have been received upon the BPY privatization (a combination of cash, BN and BAM shares, and New LP Preferred 
Units), based on the value of that consideration on the date of exchange. BPY also has the option of delivering the actual 
consideration (a combination of cash, BN and BAM shares, and New LP Preferred Units). Following the BPY privatization, we 
have agreed with the holder to grant the company the right to purchase all or any portion of the preferred equity units of the 
holder at maturity, and to grant the holder the right to sell all or any portion of the preferred equity units of the holder at 
maturity, in each case at a price equal to the issue price for such preferred equity units plus accrued and unpaid distributions. 
On December 30, 2021 and December 31, 2024, the company acquired the tranches redeemable in 2021 and 2024 from the 
holder and subsequently exchanged such units for LP Units and Redemption-Exchange Units of BPY. The preferred equity 
units were subsequently cancelled.
Subsidiary preferred equity units include $466 million as at December 31, 2024 (2023 – $474 million) of preferred equity 
interests issued in connection with the BPY privatization which have been classified as a liability due to the fact the holders of 
such interests can demand cash payment upon maturity on July 26, 2081, for the liquidation preference of $25.00 per unit and 
any accumulated unpaid dividends. 
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE INFORMATION)
Shares 
Outstanding
Cumulative 
Dividend Rate
Local 
Currency 2024 2023
Series 2       .......................................................................... n/a  6.50% US$ $ — $ 587 
Series 3       ..........................................................................  24,000,000  6.75% US$  576  564 
New LP Preferred Units  ................................................  19,000,749  6.25% US$  466  474 
Total      ................................................................................................................................................................. $ 1,042 $ 1,625 
c) Limited-Life Funds and Redeemable Fund Units
Limited-life funds and redeemable fund units represent interests held in our consolidated funds by third-party investors that 
have been classified as a liability, as holders of these interests can cause our funds to redeem their interest in the fund for cash 
equivalents at a specified time. As at December 31, 2024, we have $139 million (2023 – $263 million) of subsidiary equity 
obligations arising from limited-life funds and redeemable fund units.
In our Real Estate business, limited-life fund obligations include $139 million (2023 – $189 million) of equity interests held by 
third-party investors in two consolidated funds that have been classified as a liability, as holders of these interests can cause the 
funds to redeem their interests in the fund for cash equivalents at the fair value of the interest at a set date.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 211

20. SUBSIDIARY PUBLIC ISSUERS AND FINANCE SUBSIDIARIES
Brookfield Finance Inc. (“BFI”) was incorporated on March 31, 2015 under the Business Corporations Act (Ontario) and is a 
subsidiary of the Corporation. Historically, we have also issued debt securities through other subsidiaries, including Brookfield 
Finance LLC (“BFL”) and Brookfield Finance I (UK) PLC (“BF U.K.”). As at December 31, 2024, BFI is the issuer of the 
following series of notes (together with BFL and BF U.K. as co-obligors, as noted below):
• $500 million of 4.25% notes due in 2026;
• $1.1 billion of 3.90% notes due in 2028;
• $1.0 billion of 4.85% notes due in 2029;
• $750 million of 4.35% notes due in 2030;
• $500 million of 2.724% notes due in 2031; 
• $600 million of 2.34% notes due in 2032 (BF U.K. co-obligor).
• $700 million of 6.35% notes due in 2034;
• $450 million of 5.675% notes due in 2035;
• $900 million of 4.70% notes due in 2047;
• $600 million of 3.45% notes due in 2050 (BFL co-obligor);
• $750 million of 3.50% notes due in 2051; 
• $400 million of 3.625% notes due in 2052;
• $950 million of 5.968% notes due in 2054;
• $700 million of 6.30% subordinated notes due in 2055; and
• $400 million of 4.625% subordinated notes due in 2080.
Subsequent to year-end, BFI issued $500 million of 5.813% notes due in 2055. In addition, Brookfield Finance II Inc. (“BFI 
II”) is the issuer of C$1.0 billion of 5.431% notes due in 2032, Brookfield Capital Finance LLC (the “US LLC Issuer”) is the 
issuer of $550 million of 6.087% notes due in 2033, and BF U.K. is the issuer of $230 million of 4.50% perpetual subordinated 
notes.
BFL is a Delaware limited liability company formed on February 6, 2017 and is a subsidiary of the Corporation. The US LLC 
Issuer is a Delaware limited liability company formed on August 12, 2022 and a subsidiary of the Corporation. BFI II was 
incorporated on September 24, 2020 under the Business Corporations Act (Ontario) and is a subsidiary of the Corporation. 
Brookfield Finance (Australia) Pty Ltd (“BF AUS”) was incorporated on September 24, 2020 under the Corporations Act 2001 
(Commonwealth of Australia) and is a subsidiary of the Corporation. BF U.K. (collectively with BFI, BFI II, BFL, BF AUS, 
and the US LLC Issuer, the “Debt Issuers”) was incorporated on September 25, 2020 under the U.K. Companies Act 2006 and 
is a subsidiary of the Corporation. Brookfield Finance II LLC (“BFL II”) was formed on September 24, 2020 under the 
Delaware Limited Liability Company Act and is a subsidiary of the Corporation. The Debt Issuers are consolidated subsidiaries 
of the Corporation that may offer and sell debt securities. BFL II is a consolidated subsidiary of the Corporation that may offer 
and sell preferred shares representing limited liability company interests. Any debt securities issued by the Debt Issuers are, or 
will be, fully and unconditionally guaranteed as to payment of principal, premium (if any), interest and certain other amounts 
by the Corporation. Any preferred shares representing limited liability company interests issued by BFL II will be fully and 
unconditionally guaranteed as to payment of distributions when due, amounts due on redemption, and amounts due on the 
liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of BFL II, in each case by the Corporation. 
The US LLC Issuer, BFI II, BFL, BFL II, BF AUS and BF U.K. have no independent activities, assets or operations other than 
in connection with any securities that they may issue.
212 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

Brookfield Investments Corporation (“BIC”) is an investment company that holds investments in the real estate, renewable 
power and infrastructure sectors, as well as a portfolio of preferred shares issued by the Corporation’s subsidiaries. The 
Corporation provided a full and unconditional guarantee of the Class 1 Senior Preferred Shares, Series A issued by BIC. As at 
December 31, 2024 , C$20 million of these senior preferred shares were held by third-party shareholders and are retractable 
at the option of the holder.
The following tables contain summarized financial information of the Corporation, BFI, BFI II, BFL, BFL II, BF AUS, 
BF U.K., the US LLC Issuer, BIC and non-guarantor subsidiaries:
AS AT AND FOR THE YEAR 
ENDED DEC. 31, 2024
(MILLIONS)
The
Corporation1 BFI BFI II BFL BFL II
BF
AUS
BF
U.K.
US 
LLC 
Issuer BIC
Other
Subsidiaries of
the Corporation2
Consolidating
Adjustments3
The 
Company
Consolidated
Revenues    ................................ $ 3,432 $ 830 $ 100 $ — $ — $ — $ 15 $ 45 $ 189 $ 95,220 $ (13,825) $ 86,006 
Net income (loss) attributable 
to shareholders   ........................  641  416  60  —  —  —  15  (1)  123  9,749  (10,362)  641 
Total assets      .............................  85,449 
 11,640  699  —  —  —  169  552  3,907  557,003  (168,995)  490,424 
Total liabilities  ........................  39,472  10,457  693  2  —  —  1  550  3,423  312,176  (41,733)  325,041 
Non-controlling interest – 
preferred equity    ......................  —  —  —  —  —  —  230  —  —  —  —  230 
AS AT AND FOR THE YEAR 
ENDED DEC. 31, 2023
(MILLIONS)
The
Corporation1 BFI BFI II BFL BFL II
BF
AUS
BF
U.K.
US 
LLC 
Issuer BIC
Other
Subsidiaries of
the Corporation2
Consolidating
Adjustments3
The 
Company
Consolidated
Revenues    ................................ $ 2,787 $ 312 $ 24 $ — $ — $ — $ 15 $ 24 $ 188 $ 104,516 $ (11,942) $ 95,924 
Net income (loss) attributable 
to shareholders   ........................  1,130  (27)  (17)  —  —  —  15  —  34  8,348  (8,353)  1,130 
Total assets      .............................  77,567 
 10,813  757  —  —  —  160  552  4,165  561,498  (165,417)  490,095 
Total liabilities  ........................  31,790  8,793  752  2  —  —  1  549  3,546  320,691  (44,271)  321,853 
Non-controlling interest – 
preferred equity    ......................  —  —  —  —  —  —  230  —  —  —  —  230 
1. This column accounts for investments in all subsidiaries of the Corporation under the equity method.
2. This column accounts for investments in all subsidiaries of the Corporation other than BFI, BFI II, BFL, BFL II, BF AUS, BF U.K., the US LLC Issuer and BIC on a 
combined basis.
3. This column includes the necessary amounts to present the company on a consolidated basis.
21.  EQUITY
Equity consists of the following: 
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) Note 2024 2023
Preferred equity      ................................................................................................................................. (a) $ 4,103 $ 4,103 
Non-controlling interests   .................................................................................................................... (b)  119,406  122,465 
Common equity       ................................................................................................................................. (c)  41,874  41,674 
$ 165,383 $ 168,242 
a) Preferred Equity
Preferred equity includes perpetual preferred shares and rate-reset preferred shares and consists of the following:
Average Rate
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023 2024 2023
Perpetual preferred shares
Floating rate  .........................................................................................................  4.52%  5.29% $ 463 $ 463 
Fixed rate    .............................................................................................................  4.82%  4.82%  739  739 
 4.70%  5.00%  1,202  1,202 
Fixed rate-reset preferred shares     ............................................................................  5.04%  4.72%  2,901  2,901 
 4.94%  4.80% $ 4,103 $ 4,103 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 213

Further details on each series of preferred shares are as follows:
Issued and Outstanding
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE INFORMATION) Rate 2024 2023 2024 2023
Class A preferred shares
Perpetual preferred shares
Series 2       ........................................................................... 70% P  10,220,175  10,220,175 $ 169 $ 169 
Series 4        .......................................................................... 70% P  3,983,910  3,983,910  45  45 
Series 13       ......................................................................... 70% P  8,792,596  8,792,596  195  195 
Series 17       .........................................................................  4.75%  7,840,204  7,840,204  171  171 
Series 18        ........................................................................  4.75%  7,681,088  7,681,088  178  178 
Series 36       .........................................................................  4.85%  7,842,909  7,842,909  197  197 
Series 37       .........................................................................  4.90%  7,830,091  7,830,091  193  193 
Series 51       ......................................................................... Variable up to P  3,320,486  3,320,486  54  54 
 1,202  1,202 
Rate-reset preferred shares1
Series 24       .........................................................................  3.24%  10,808,027  10,808,027  265  265 
Series 26       .........................................................................  3.85%  9,770,928  9,770,928  240  240 
Series 28       .........................................................................  4.61%  9,233,927  9,233,927  232  232 
Series 30        ........................................................................  6.09%  9,787,090  9,787,090  241  241 
Series 322
    ........................................................................  6.74%  11,750,299  11,750,299  297  297 
Series 343
    ........................................................................  6.15%  9,876,735  9,876,735  253  253 
Series 38       .........................................................................  3.57%  7,906,132  7,906,132  179  179 
Series 404
    ........................................................................  5.83%  11,841,025  11,841,025  271  271 
Series 42       .........................................................................  3.25%  11,887,500  11,887,500  266  266 
Series 44       .........................................................................  5.00%  9,831,929  9,831,929  187  187 
Series 46       .........................................................................  5.39%  11,740,797  11,740,797  217  217 
Series 48       .........................................................................  6.23%  11,885,972  11,885,972  244  244 
Series 52       .........................................................................  2.75%  1,177,580  1,177,580  9  9 
 2,901  2,901 
Total      .................................................................................................................................................................... $ 4,103 $ 4,103 
1. Dividend rates are fixed for 5 to 6 years from the quarter end dates after issuance, June 30, 2011, March 31, 2012, June 30, 2012, December 31, 2012, 
September 30, 2013, March 31, 2014, June 30, 2014, December 31, 2014, December 31, 2015, December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2017, respectively and reset after 
5 to 6 years to the 5-year Government of Canada bond rate plus between 180 and 417 basis points.
2. Dividend rate reset commenced October 1, 2023.
3. Dividend rate reset commenced April 1, 2024.
4. Dividend rate reset commenced October 1, 2024.
P – Prime Rate
The company is authorized to issue an unlimited number of Class A preferred shares and an unlimited number of 
Class AA preferred shares, issuable in series. No Class AA preferred shares have been issued.
The Class A preferred shares are entitled to preference over the Class A and Class B Limited Voting Shares (“Class A and B 
shares”) on the declaration of dividends and other distributions to shareholders. All series of the outstanding preferred shares 
have a par value of C$25.00 per share, except for Series 51 and Series 52, which have a par value of C$22.44 and C$22.00 
respectively.
214 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

b) Non-controlling Interests
Non-controlling interests represent the common and preferred equity in consolidated entities that are owned by other 
shareholders.
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Common equity   .................................................................................................................................................. $ 114,389 $ 117,318 
Preferred equity ..................................................................................................................................................  5,017  5,147 
Total      ................................................................................................................................................................... $ 119,406 $ 122,465 
Further information on non-controlling interests is provided in Note 4 Subsidiaries. 
c) Common Equity
The company’s common equity is comprised of the following:
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Common shares    .................................................................................................................................................. $ 10,806 $ 10,879 
Contributed surplus    ............................................................................................................................................  114  112 
Retained earnings     ...............................................................................................................................................  17,066  18,006 
Ownership changes   ............................................................................................................................................  5,045  4,510 
Accumulated other comprehensive income    .......................................................................................................  8,843  8,167 
Common equity   .................................................................................................................................................. $ 41,874 $ 41,674 
The company is authorized to issue an unlimited number of Class A Limited Voting Shares ("Class A shares") and 
85,120 Class B Limited Voting Shares ("Class B shares"). The company’s Class A shares and Class B shares have no stated par 
value. The holders of Class A shares and Class B shares rank on par with each other with respect to the payment of dividends 
and the return of capital on the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the company or any other distribution of the assets of 
the company among its shareholders for the purpose of winding up its affairs. Holders of the Class A shares are entitled to elect 
half of the Board of Directors of the company and holders of the Class B shares are entitled to elect the other half of the Board 
of Directors. With respect to the Class A and Class B shares, there are no dilutive factors, material or otherwise, that would 
result in different diluted earnings per share between the classes. This relationship holds true irrespective of the number of 
dilutive instruments issued in either one of the respective classes of Class A and Class B shares, as both classes of shares 
participate equally, on a pro rata basis, in the dividends, earnings and net assets of the company, whether taken before or after 
dilutive instruments, regardless of which class of shares is diluted.
The holders of the company’s Class A shares and Class B shares received cash dividends during 2024 of $0.32 per share 
(2023 – $0.28 per share). 
The number of issued and outstanding Class A and Class B shares and unexercised options are as follows:
AS AT DEC. 31 2024 2023
Class A shares1
   .................................................................................................................................  1,506,464,968  1,523,372,339 
Class B shares    ..................................................................................................................................  85,120  85,120 
Shares outstanding1
    ..........................................................................................................................  1,506,550,088  1,523,457,459 
Unexercised options, other share-based plans2 and exchangeable shares of affiliate   ......................  95,805,397  91,632,045 
Total diluted shares    ..........................................................................................................................  1,602,355,485  1,615,089,504 
1. Net of 104,786,155 Class A shares held by the company in respect of long-term compensation agreements as at December 31, 2024 (December 31, 2023 – 81,849,805).
2. Includes management share option plan and escrowed stock plan.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 215

The authorized common share capital consists of an unlimited number of Class A shares and 85,120 Class B shares. Shares 
issued and outstanding changed as follows:
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31 2024 2023
Outstanding, beginning of year1
     ......................................................................................................  1,523,457,459  1,573,371,868 
Issued (Repurchased)
Issuances    ........................................................................................................................................  3,351,357  794,418 
Repurchases2
   ..................................................................................................................................  (26,676,978)  (54,547,332) 
Long-term share ownership plans3
  .................................................................................................  6,371,747  3,722,567 
Dividend reinvestment plan and other   ...........................................................................................  46,503  115,938 
Outstanding, end of year4
    .................................................................................................................  1,506,550,088  1,523,457,459 
1. Net of 81,849,805 Class A shares held by the company in respect of long-term compensation agreements as at December 31, 2023 (December 31, 2022 – 62,910,220).
2. During 2023, 32,934,574 BN Class A shares (“BN shares”) were voluntarily exchanged for newly-issued BWS class A-1 exchangeable non-voting shares on a one-for-
one basis. BWS Class A-1 shares are convertible in BN shares.
3. Includes management share option plan and restricted stock plan.
4. Net of 104,786,155 Class A shares held by the company in respect of long-term compensation agreements as at December 31, 2024 (December 31, 2023  – 81,849,805). 
Earnings Per Share
The components of basic and diluted earnings per share are summarized in the following table:
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Net income attributable to shareholders    ............................................................................................................ $ 641 $ 1,130 
Preferred share dividends   ...................................................................................................................................  (168)  (166) 
Net income available to shareholders   ................................................................................................................  473  964 
Dilutive impact of exchangeable shares     ............................................................................................................  12  5 
Net income available to shareholders including dilutive impact of exchangeable shares    ................................. $ 485 $ 969 
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Weighted average – Class A and Class B shares   ...............................................................................................  1,511.5  1,558.5 
Dilutive effect of conversion of options and escrowed shares using treasury stock method and 
exchangeable shares of affiliate    .......................................................................................................................  73.1  29.7 
Class A and Class B shares and share equivalents   ............................................................................................  1,584.6  1,588.2 Share-Based Compensation
The expense arising from share-based compensation is summarized in the following table:
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Expense arising from equity-settled share-based payment transactions  ............................................................ $ 103 $ 104 
Expense arising from cash-settled share-based payment transactions  ...............................................................  410  290 
Total expense arising from share-based payment transactions   ..........................................................................  513  394 
Effect of hedging program     .................................................................................................................................  (407)  (289) 
Total expense included in consolidated income     ................................................................................................ $ 106 $ 105 The company’s share-based payment plans are described below.
Equity-settled Share-based Awards
Management Share Option Plan
Options issued under the company’s Management Share Option Plan (“MSOP”) vest over a period of up to five years, expire 
ten years after the grant date and are settled through issuance of Class A shares. The exercise price is equal to the market price 
at the grant date. For the year ended December 31, 2024, the total expense incurred with respect to MSOP totaled $15 million 
(2023 – $17 million).
216 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

The changes in the number of options during 2024 and 2023 were as follows:
NYSE
Number of Options 
(000’s)1
Weighted- Average Exercise 
Price
Outstanding as at January 1, 2024     ...........................................................  39,745 US$  26.30 
Granted    ....................................................................................................  1,165  40.03 
Exercised    ..................................................................................................  (10,187)  20.58 
Cancelled   .................................................................................................  (232)  40.96 
Outstanding as at December 31, 2024    .....................................................  30,491 US$  28.63 
1. Options to acquire NYSE listed Class A shares.
NYSE
Number of Options 
(000’s)1
Weighted- Average Exercise 
Price
Outstanding as at January 1, 2023    .............................................................  44,093 US$  25.16 
Granted     .....................................................................................................  716  36.37 
Exercised    ...................................................................................................  (4,731)  16.25 
Cancelled     ..................................................................................................  (333)  39.57 
Outstanding as at December 31, 2023     .......................................................  39,745 US$  26.30 
1. Options to acquire NYSE listed Class A shares.
The weighted-average fair value of options granted for the year ended December 31, 2024 was $12.51 (2023 – $9.61), and was 
determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model, with inputs to the model as follows:
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31 Unit 2024 2023
Weighted-average share price ...................................................................................................... US$  40.03  36.37 
Average term to exercise     ............................................................................................................. Years  7.5  7.5 
Share price volatility1
    ................................................................................................................... %  35.0  28.7 
Liquidity discount      ........................................................................................................................ %  25.0  25.0 
Weighted-average annual dividend yield  ..................................................................................... %  1.0  1.0 
Risk-free rate ................................................................................................................................ %  4.2  4.0 
1. Share price volatility was determined based on historical share prices over a similar period to the average term to exercise.
As at December 31, 2024, the following options to purchase Class A shares were outstanding:
Options Outstanding (000’s)
Exercise Price
Weighted-Average 
Remaining Life Vested Unvested Total
US$14.61 – US$16.70    .............................................................................. 1.1 years  2,611  —  2,611 
US$18.43 – US$22.05    .............................................................................. 2.5 years  10,142  —  10,142 
US$24.15 – US$31.64    .............................................................................. 4.2 years  5,776  102  5,878 
US$35.56 – US$46.62    .............................................................................. 6.6 years  6,127  5,733  11,860 
 24,656  5,835  30,491 
As at December 31, 2023, the following options to purchase Class A shares were outstanding:
Options Outstanding (000’s)
Exercise Price
Weighted-Average 
Remaining Life Vested Unvested Total
US$13.77 – US$16.70    .............................................................................. 1.8 years  4,845  —  4,845 
US$18.43 – US$22.05    .............................................................................. 3.0 years  16,604  —  16,604 
US$24.15 – US$31.64    .............................................................................. 5.2 years  5,539  1,390  6,929 
US$35.56 – US$46.62    .............................................................................. 7.3 years  4,175  7,192  11,367 
 31,163  8,582  39,745 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 217

Escrowed Stock Plan
The Escrowed Stock Plan (the “ES Plan”) provides executives with indirect ownership of Class A shares. Under the ES Plan, 
executives are granted common shares (the “ES Shares”) in one or more private companies that own Class A shares. The 
Class A shares are purchased on the open market with the purchase cost funded by the company. The ES shares generally vest 
over five years and must be held to the fifth anniversary of the grant date. At a date no more than ten years from the grant date, 
all outstanding ES shares will be exchanged for Class A shares issued by the company based on the market value of Class A 
shares at the time of the exchange. The number of Class A shares issued on exchange will be less than the Class A shares 
purchased under the ES Plan resulting in a net reduction in the number of Class A shares issued by the company.
During 2024 , 16.4 million  Class A shares were purchased in respect of ES shares granted to executives under the ES Plan 
(2023 – 2.2 million Class A shares) during the year. For the year ended December 31, 2024 , the total expense incurred with 
respect to the ES Plan totaled $36 million (2023 – $30 million).
The weighted-average fair value of escrowed shares granted for the year ended December 31, 2024  was $12.51 (2023 – $9.61), 
and was determined using the Black-Scholes model of valuation with inputs to the model as follows:
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31 Unit 2024 2023
Weighted-average share price ...................................................................................................... US$  40.03  36.37 
Average term to exercise     ............................................................................................................. Years  7.5  7.5 
Share price volatility1
    ................................................................................................................... %  35.0  28.7 
Liquidity discount      ........................................................................................................................ %  25.0  25.0 
Weighted-average annual dividend yield  ..................................................................................... %  1.0  1.0 
Risk-free rate ................................................................................................................................ %  4.2  4.0 
1. Share price volatility was determined based on historical share prices over a similar period to the average term to exercise.
The change in the number of ES shares during 2024 and 2023 was as follows:
Number of 
Units (000’s)
Weighted- 
Average 
Exercise Price
Outstanding as at January 1, 2024    ........................................................................................................  41,337 $ 35.03 
Granted    .................................................................................................................................................  16,375  40.03 
Exercised    ..............................................................................................................................................  (1,292)  35.70 
Cancelled    ..............................................................................................................................................  (10)  42.18 
Outstanding as at December 31, 2024     ..................................................................................................  56,410 $ 36.47 
Number of 
Units (000’s)
Weighted- 
Average 
Exercise Price
Outstanding as at January 1, 2023    ........................................................................................................  39,425 $ 35.00 
Granted    .................................................................................................................................................  2,155  36.37 
Exercised    ..............................................................................................................................................  (228)  34.84 
Cancelled    ..............................................................................................................................................  (15)  43.51 
Outstanding as at December 31, 2023  41,337 $ 35.03 
Restricted Stock Plan
The Restricted Stock Plan awards executives with Class A shares purchased on the open market (“Restricted Shares”). Under 
the Restricted Stock Plan, Restricted Shares awarded vest over a period of up to five years , except for Restricted Shares 
awarded in lieu of a cash bonus, which may vest immediately. Vested and unvested Restricted Shares are subject to a hold 
period of up to five years . Holders of Restricted Shares are entitled to vote Restricted Shares and to receive associated 
dividends. Employee compensation expense for the Restricted Stock Plan is charged against income over the vesting period.
During 2024, Brookfield granted 1.7 million Class A shares (2023 – 1.5 million) pursuant to the terms and conditions of the 
Restricted Stock Plan, resulting in the recognition of $52 million (2023 – $57 million) of compensation expense. 
218 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

Cash-settled Share-based Awards
Deferred Share Unit Plan and Restricted Share Unit Plan
The Deferred Share Unit Plan and Restricted Share Unit Plan provide for the issuance of DSUs and RSUs, respectively. Under 
these plans, qualifying employees and directors receive varying percentages of their annual incentive bonus or directors’ fees in 
the form of DSUs and RSUs. The DSUs and RSUs vest over periods of up to five years, and DSUs accumulate additional 
DSUs at the same rate as dividends on common shares based on the market value of the common shares at the time of the 
dividend. Participants are not allowed to convert DSUs and RSUs into cash until retirement or cessation of employment. 
The value of the DSUs, when converted to cash, will be equivalent to the market value of the common shares at the time the 
conversion takes place. The value of the RSUs, when converted into cash, will be equivalent to the difference between 
the market price of equivalent number of common shares at the time the conversion takes place and the market price on the date 
the RSUs are granted. The company uses equity derivative contracts to offset its exposure to the change in share prices in 
respect of vested and unvested DSUs and RSUs. The fair value of the vested DSUs and RSUs as at December 31, 2024  was 
$1.1 billion (2023 – $1.3 billion).
Employee compensation expense for these plans is charged against income over the vesting period of the DSUs and RSUs. 
The amount payable by the company in respect of vested DSUs and RSUs changes as a result of dividends and share price 
movements. All of the amounts attributable to changes in the amounts payable by the company are recorded as employee 
compensation expense in the period of the change. For the year ended December 31, 2024 , employee compensation expense 
totaled $3 million (2023 – $1 million), net of the impact of hedging arrangements.
During the year ended December 31, 2024 , the RSU plan was terminated and all participants received cash or other financial 
instruments equivalent to the fair value at the date of settlement. As the RSUs have been settled, the fair value is $nil as at 
December 31, 2024 (2023 – $486 million).
The change in the number of DSUs and RSUs during 2024 and 2023 was as follows:
DSUs RSUs
Number 
of Units 
(000’s)
Number 
of Units 
(000’s)
Weighted- 
Average 
Exercise 
Price
Outstanding as at January 1, 2024    ........................................................................................  20,951  13,679 C$  6.10 
Granted and reinvested    ........................................................................................................  219  —  — 
Exercised and cancelled   .......................................................................................................  (1,703)  (13,679)  6.10 
Outstanding as at December 31, 2024     ..................................................................................  19,467  — C$  — 
DSUs RSUs
Number 
of Units 
(000’s)
Number 
of Units 
(000’s)
Weighted- 
Average 
Exercise 
Price
Outstanding as at January 1, 2023    ........................................................................................  21,648  13,679 C$  6.10 
Granted and reinvested    ........................................................................................................  271  —  — 
Exercised and cancelled   .......................................................................................................  (968)  —  — 
Outstanding as at December 31, 2023     ..................................................................................  20,951  13,679 C$  6.10 
The fair value of each DSU is equal to the traded price of the company’s common shares.
Unit Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
Share price on date of measurement      ...................................................................................... C$  82.62  53.15 
Share price on date of measurement      ...................................................................................... US$  57.45  40.12 
The fair value of RSUs was determined primarily using the following inputs:
Unit Dec. 31, 2024 Dec. 31, 2023
Share price on date of measurement      ...................................................................................... C$  —  53.15 
Weighted-average fair value of a unit      ................................................................................... C$  —  47.05 
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 219

22. REVENUES
We perform a disaggregated analysis of revenues considering the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenues. This 
includes disclosure of our revenues by segment and type, as well as a breakdown of whether revenues from goods or services 
are recognized at a point in time or delivered over a period of time. 
a) Revenue by Type
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DEC. 31, 2024
(MILLIONS)
Asset 
Management
Corporate
Activities
Renewable 
Power and 
Transition Infrastructure
Private 
Equity Real Estate
Total
Revenues
Revenue from contracts with customers     ..................................... $ 5,299 $ — $ 5,856 $ 18,885 $ 37,977 $ 3,298 $ 71,315 
Other revenue   ..............................................................................  4,744  476  629  2,640  3,344  2,858  14,691 
$ 10,043 $ 476 $ 6,485 $ 21,525 $ 41,321 $ 6,156 $ 86,006 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DEC. 31, 2023
(MILLIONS)
Asset 
Management
Corporate
Activities
Renewable 
Power and 
Transition Infrastructure
Private 
Equity Real Estate
Total
Revenues
Revenue from contracts with customers     ..................................... $ 5,229 $ — $ 4,878 $ 16,899 $ 52,570 $ 3,156 $ 82,732 
Other revenue   ..............................................................................  4,990  309  432  1,335  3,113  3,013  13,192 
$ 10,219 $ 309 $ 5,310 $ 18,234 $ 55,683 $ 6,169 $ 95,924 
b) Timing of Recognition of Revenue from Contracts with Customers
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DEC. 31, 2024
(MILLIONS)
Asset 
Management
Renewable 
Power and 
Transition Infrastructure
Private 
Equity Real Estate
Total
Revenues
Goods and services provided at a point in time  ................................................... $ 1,504 $ 350 $ — $ 30,408 $ 2,300 $ 34,562 
Services transferred over a period of time   ...........................................................  3,795  5,506  18,885  7,569  998  36,753 
$ 5,299 $ 5,856 $ 18,885 $ 37,977 $ 3,298 $ 71,315 FOR THE YEAR ENDED DEC. 31, 2023
(MILLIONS)
Asset 
Management
Renewable 
Power and 
Transition Infrastructure
Private 
Equity Real Estate
Total
Revenues
Goods and services provided at a point in time      ................................................... $ 1,562 $ 221 $ — $ 42,562 $ 2,165 $ 46,510 
Services transferred over a period of time    ...........................................................  3,667  4,657  16,899  10,008  991  36,222 
$ 5,229 $ 4,878 $ 16,899 $ 52,570 $ 3,156 $ 82,732 
Remaining Performance Obligation
Private Equity
In our construction services business, backlog is defined as revenue yet to be delivered (i.e. remaining performance obligations) 
on construction projects that have been secured via an executed contract or work order. As at December 31, 2024, our backlog 
of construction projects was approximately $5.7 billion (2023 – $6.2 billion).
Our dealer software and technology services operation had remaining performance obligations related to its long-term software 
and maintenance and support contracts of approximately $3.0 billion (2023 – $2.3 billion). 
In our Brazilian water and wastewater operation business, our long-term, inflation-adjusted concession service contracts with 
various municipalities have an average remaining contract duration of 22 years as at December 31, 2024 (2023 – 23 years), and 
the remaining performance obligations were approximately $8.3 billion (2023 – $10.6 billion).
Others
In our other businesses, revenue is generally recognized as invoiced for contracts recognized over a period of time as the 
amounts invoiced are commensurate with the value provided to the customers.
220 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

c) Lease Income
Our leases in which the company is a lessor are primarily operating in nature. Total lease income from our assets leased out on 
operating leases totaled $10.4 billion (2023 – $8.8 billion) including $141 million (2023 – $155 million) of income related to 
variable lease income that is not dependent on an index or rate. 
The following table presents the undiscounted contractual earnings receivable of the company’s leases by expected period of 
receipt:
Payments Receivable by Period
AS AT DEC. 31, 2024
(MILLIONS)
Less than 1 
Year
1 – 3 
Years
4 – 5
Years 
After 5
Years Total 
Receivables from lease contracts     ................................ $ 6,215 $ 9,821 $ 7,160 $ 15,025 $ 38,221 
Payments Receivable by Period
AS AT DEC. 31, 2023
(MILLIONS)
Less than 1 
Year
1 – 3 
Years
4 – 5
Years 
After 5
Years Total 
Receivables from lease contracts   ................................ $ 6,826 $ 11,229 $ 8,268 $ 17,671 $ 43,994 23. DIRECT COSTS
Direct costs include all attributable expenses except interest, taxes and fair value changes, and primarily relate to cost of sales, 
depreciation and amortization, and compensation. The following table lists direct costs for 2024 and 2023 by nature:
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Cost of sales1
    ...................................................................................................................................................... $ 40,124 $ 52,224 
Depreciation and amortization    ...........................................................................................................................  9,737  9,075 
Compensation    ....................................................................................................................................................  9,410  11,155 
Selling, general and administrative expenses      ....................................................................................................  4,932  5,354 
Property taxes, sales taxes and other   ..................................................................................................................  3,733  3,601 
$ 67,936 $ 81,409 
1. Cost of sales primarily relate to inventory costs in our Private Equity segment. In the third quarter of 2024, we disposed of our road fuels operation within our Private 
Equity segment.
24. FAIR VALUE CHANGES
Fair value changes recorded in net income represent gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of assets and 
liabilities, including derivative financial instruments, accounted for using the fair value method and are comprised of the 
following:
Investment properties   ......................................................................................................................................... $ 556 $ (105) 
Transaction related income, net of expenses      .....................................................................................................  143  (608) 
Financial contracts    .............................................................................................................................................  857  337 
Impairment and provisions     ................................................................................................................................  (2,404)  (1,276) 
Other fair value changes     ....................................................................................................................................  (1,672)  256 
$ (2,520) $ (1,396) 
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 221

25. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The company’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks, including market risk (i.e. currency risk, interest rate risk and 
other price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The company selectively uses derivative financial instruments principally to 
manage these risks.
The aggregate notional amount of the company’s derivative positions as at December 31, 2024 and 2023 is as follows:
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) Note 2024 2023
Foreign exchange    ................................................................................................................................ (a) $ 63,064 $ 58,175 
Interest rates     ........................................................................................................................................ (b)  97,961  124,265 
Equity derivatives   ............................................................................................................................... (c)  1,936  2,017 
Commodity instruments (d)
Energy (GWh)     .................................................................................................................................  173,523  98,345 
Natural gas (MMBtu – 000’s)      .........................................................................................................  110,828  144,104 
a) Foreign Exchange
The company held the following foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts as at December 31, 2024 and 2023:
Notional Amount 
(U.S. Dollars) Average Exchange Rate
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023 2024 2023
Foreign exchange contracts
Canadian dollars ................................................................................................... $ 7,878 $ 7,360  0.74  0.76 
British pounds      ......................................................................................................  8,334  7,608  1.15  1.07 
European Union euros  ..........................................................................................  15,497  14,814  1.01  1.09 
Australian dollars    .................................................................................................  5,228  3,417  0.66  0.69 
Indian rupee1
   ........................................................................................................  7,280  5,233  88.12  85.57 
Korean won1
  .........................................................................................................  1,002  1,091  1,380  1,303 
Chinese yuan1
  .......................................................................................................  3,604  3,083  6.97  6.86 
Japanese yen1
   .......................................................................................................  142  77  137.64  138.41 
Colombian pesos1
  .................................................................................................  2,463  2,652  4,541  4,629 
Brazilian reais     ......................................................................................................  1,981  3,969  0.19  0.18 
Other currencies    ...................................................................................................  763  1,532 Various Various
Cross currency interest rate swaps
Canadian dollars ...................................................................................................  5,661  6,457  0.80  0.80 
Australian dollars    .................................................................................................  346  502  0.66  0.68 
Chinese yuan1
  .......................................................................................................  825  —  7.17  — 
Foreign exchange options
Indian rupee1
   ........................................................................................................  2,060  379  82.87  74.20 
1. Average rate is quoted using USD as base currency.
Included in net income are unrealized net gains on foreign currency derivative contracts amounting to $236 million (2023 – 
gains of $47 million) and included in the cumulative translation adjustment account in other comprehensive income are gains in 
respect of foreign currency contracts entered into for hedging purposes amounting to $2.8 billion (2023 – losses of 
$1.6 billion).
b) Interest Rates
As at December 31, 2024, the company held interest rate swap and forward starting swap contracts having an aggregate 
notional amount of $70.5 billion (2023 – $76.1 billion), interest rate swaptions with an aggregate notional amount of $nil  
(2023 – $292 million) and interest rate cap contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $27.5 billion (2023 – $47.9 billion).
c) Equity Derivatives
As at December 31, 2024, the company held equity derivatives with a notional amount of $1.9 billion (2023 – $2.0 billion) 
which include approximately $1.9 billion (2023 – $2.0 billion) notional amount that hedges long-term compensation 
222 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

arrangements. The balance represents common equity positions established in connection with the company’s investment 
activities as well as general equity market hedges. The fair value of these instruments was reflected in the company’s 
consolidated financial statements at year end.
d) Commodity Instruments
The company has entered into energy derivative contracts primarily to hedge the sale of generated power. The company 
endeavors to link forward electricity sale derivatives to specific periods in which it expects to generate electricity for sale. 
All energy derivative contracts are recorded at an amount equal to fair value and are reflected in the company’s 
consolidated financial statements. The company has financial contracts outstanding on 110,828,000 MMBtu’s (2023 – 
144,104,000 MMBtu’s) of natural gas as part of its electricity sale price risk mitigation strategy.
Other Information Regarding Derivative Financial Instruments
The following table classifies derivatives elected for hedge accounting during the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 as 
either cash flow hedges or net investment hedges. Changes in the fair value of the effective portion of the hedge are recorded in 
either other comprehensive income or net income, depending on the hedge classification, whereas changes in the fair value of 
the ineffective portion of the hedge are recorded in net income:
2024 2023
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) Notional
Effective 
Portion
Ineffective 
Portion Notional
Effective 
Portion
Ineffective 
Portion
Cash flow hedges1
     ...................................................... $ 71,646 $ (17) $ 7 $ 84,119 $ (754) $ (12) 
Net investment hedges  ...............................................  47,408  2,814  —  45,979  (1,200)  — 
$ 119,054 $ 2,797 $ 7 $ 130,098 $ (1,954) $ (12) 
1. Notional amount does not include 131,526 GWh and 69,082 MMBtu – 000’s – of commodity derivatives as at December 31, 2024 (2023 – 28,952 GWh, 49,386 
MMBtu – 000’s).
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 223

The following table presents the change in fair values of the company’s derivative positions during the years ended December 
31, 2024 and 2023, for derivatives that are fair valued through profit or loss, and derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting:
(MILLIONS)
Unrealized 
Gains 
During 2024
Unrealized 
Losses 
During 2024
Net Change 
During 2024
Net Change 
During 2023
Foreign exchange derivatives   ............................................................... $ 271 $ (35) $ 236 $ 47 
Interest rate derivatives   .........................................................................  222  (461)  (239)  (10) 
Equity derivatives   .................................................................................  500  —  500  (32) 
Commodity derivatives  .........................................................................  248  (126)  122  98 
$ 1,241 $ (622) $ 619 $ 103 
The following table presents the notional amounts underlying the company’s derivative instruments by term to maturity as at 
December 31, 2024 and 2023, for derivatives that are classified as fair value through profit or loss, and derivatives that qualify 
for hedge accounting:
2024 2023
AS AT DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) <1 Year 1 to 5 Years >5 Years
Total Notional
Amount
Total Notional
Amount
Fair value through profit or loss
Foreign exchange derivatives   ....................... $ 2,576 $ 4,489 $ 2,594 $ 9,659 $ 6,133 
Interest rate derivatives   .................................  15,044  15,264  1,393  31,701  45,100 
Equity derivatives   .........................................  1,704  198  34  1,936  2,017 
Commodity instruments
Energy (GWh)     ...........................................  3,507  24,011  14,479  41,997  69,394 
Natural gas (MMBtu – 000’s)      ...................  41,276  470  —  41,746  94,718 
Elected for hedge accounting
Foreign exchange derivatives   ....................... $ 15,741 $ 35,776 $ 1,888 $ 53,405 $ 52,041 
Interest rate derivatives   .................................  23,888  33,208  9,164  66,260  79,165 
Commodity instruments
Energy (GWh)     ...........................................  14,553  42,697  74,276  131,526  28,951 
Natural gas (MMBtu – 000’s)      ...................  41,921  27,161  —  69,082  49,386 
224 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

26. MANAGEMENT OF RISKS ARISING FROM HOLDING FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The company is exposed to the following risks as a result of holding financial instruments: market risk (i.e., interest rate risk, 
currency exchange risk and other price risk that impact the fair value of financial instruments), credit risk and liquidity 
risk. The following is a description of these risks and how they are managed: 
a) Market Risk 
Market risk is defined for these purposes as the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument held by the 
company will fluctuate because of changes in market prices. Market risk includes the risk of changes in interest rates, currency 
exchange rates and changes in market prices due to factors other than interest rates or currency exchange rates, such as changes 
in equity prices, commodity prices or credit spreads. 
The company manages market risk from foreign currency assets and liabilities and the impact of changes in currency exchange 
rates and interest rates by funding assets with financial liabilities in the same currency and with similar interest rate 
characteristics, and by holding financial contracts such as interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives to minimize residual 
exposures. 
Financial instruments held by the company that are subject to market risk include other financial assets, borrowings and 
derivative instruments such as interest rate, currency, equity and commodity contracts. 
i. Interest Rate Risk 
The observable impacts on the fair values and future cash flows of financial instruments that can be directly attributable to 
interest rate risk include changes in the net income from financial instruments whose cash flows are determined with reference 
to floating interest rates and changes in the value of financial instruments whose cash flows are fixed in nature. 
The company’s assets largely consist of long-duration interest-sensitive physical assets. Accordingly, the company’s financial 
liabilities consist primarily of long-term fixed-rate debt or floating-rate debt that has been swapped with interest rate 
derivatives. These financial liabilities are, with few exceptions, recorded at their amortized cost. The company also holds 
interest rate caps to limit its exposure to increases in interest rates on floating rate debt that has not been swapped, and 
holds interest rate contracts to lock in fixed rates on anticipated future debt issuances and as an economic hedge against the 
changes in value of long duration interest sensitive physical assets that have not been otherwise matched with fixed rate debt. 
The result of a 50 basis-point increase in interest rates on the company’s net floating rate financial assets and liabilities would 
have resulted in a corresponding decrease in net income before tax of $257 million (2023 – $278 million) on a current basis.
Changes in the value of fair value through profit or loss interest rate contracts are recorded in net income and changes in the 
value of contracts that are elected for hedge accounting are recorded in other comprehensive income. The impact of a 50 basis-
point parallel increase in the yield curve on the aforementioned financial instruments is estimated to result in a corresponding 
increase in net income before tax of $199 million (2023 – $228 million) and an increase in other comprehensive income of 
$836 million (2023 – $956 million) for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.
ii. Currency Exchange Rate Risk
Changes in currency rates will impact the carrying value of financial instruments denominated in currencies other than the 
U.S. dollar.
The company holds financial instruments with net unmatched exposures in several currencies, changes in the translated value 
of which are recorded in net income. The impact of a 1% increase in the U.S. dollar against these currencies would have 
resulted in a $94 million (2023 – $51 million) increase in the value of these positions on a combined basis. The impact on cash 
flows from financial instruments would be insignificant. The company holds financial instruments to limit its exposure to the 
impact of foreign currencies on its net investments in foreign operations whose functional and reporting currencies are other 
than the U.S. dollar. A 1% increase in the U.S. dollar would increase the value of these hedging instruments by $503 million 
(2023 – $490 million) as at December 31, 2024, which would be recorded in other comprehensive income and offset by 
changes in the U.S. dollar carrying value of the net investment being hedged.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 225

iii. Other Price Risk
Other price risk is the risk of variability in fair value due to movements in equity prices or other market prices such as 
commodity prices and credit spreads. 
Financial instruments held by the company that are exposed to equity price risk include equity securities and equity derivatives.  
A 5% decrease in the market price of equity securities and equity derivatives held by the company, excluding equity 
derivatives that hedge compensation arrangements, would have decreased net income by $196 million (2023 – $168 million) 
and decreased other comprehensive income by $92 million (2023 – $91 million), prior to taxes. The company’s liability in 
respect of equity compensation arrangements is subject to variability based on changes in the company’s underlying common 
share price. The company holds equity derivatives to hedge almost all of the variability. A 5% increase in the common equity 
price of the company in respect of compensation agreements would increase the compensation liability and compensation 
expense by $68 million (2023 – $80 million). This increase would be offset by a $124 million (2023 – $87 million) change in 
value of the associated equity derivatives of which $68 million (2023 – $80 million) would offset the above-mentioned increase 
in compensation expense and the remaining $56 million (2023 – $7 million) would be recorded in net income.
The company sells power and generation capacity under long-term agreements and financial contracts to stabilize future 
revenues. Certain of the contracts are considered financial instruments and are recorded at fair value in the consolidated 
financial statements, with changes in value being recorded in either net income or other comprehensive income as applicable. A 
5% increase in energy prices would have decreased net income for the year ended December 31, 2024 by approximately 
$60 million (2023 – $72 million) and decreased other comprehensive income by $183 million (2023 – $31 million), prior to 
taxes. The corresponding increase in the value of the revenue or capacity being contracted, however, is not recorded in net 
income until subsequent periods.
b) Credit Risk
Credit risk is the risk of loss due to the failure of a borrower or counterparty to fulfill its contractual obligations. The 
company’s exposure to credit risk in respect of financial instruments relates primarily to counterparty obligations regarding 
derivative contracts, loans receivable and credit investments such as bonds and preferred shares.
The company assesses the creditworthiness of each counterparty before entering into contracts with a view to ensuring that 
counterparties meet minimum credit quality requirements. Management evaluates and monitors counterparty credit risk for 
derivative financial instruments and endeavors to minimize counterparty credit risk through diversification, collateral 
arrangements, and other credit risk mitigation techniques. The credit risk of derivative financial instruments is generally limited 
to the positive fair value of the instruments, which, in general, tends to be a relatively small proportion of the notional value. 
Substantially all of the company’s derivative financial instruments involve either counterparties that are banks or other financial 
institutions in North America, the U.K. and Australia, or arrangements that have embedded credit risk mitigation features. The 
company does not expect to incur credit losses in respect of any of these counterparties. The maximum exposure in respect of 
loans receivable and credit investments is equal to the carrying value.
c) Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the company cannot meet a demand for cash or fund an obligation as it comes due. Liquidity risk 
also includes the risk of not being able to liquidate assets in a timely manner at a reasonable price. 
To help ensure the company is able to react to contingencies and investment opportunities quickly, the company maintains 
sources of liquidity at the corporate and subsidiary levels. The primary source of liquidity consists of cash and other financial 
assets, net of deposits and other associated liabilities, and undrawn committed credit facilities.
The company is subject to the risks associated with debt financing, including the ability to refinance indebtedness at maturity. 
The company believes these risks are mitigated through the use of long-term debt secured by high quality assets, maintaining 
debt levels that are in management’s opinion relatively conservative, and by diversifying maturities over an extended period 
of time. The company also seeks to include in its agreements terms that protect the company from liquidity issues of 
counterparties that might otherwise impact the company’s liquidity.
226 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

The following tables present the contractual maturities of the company’s financial liabilities as at December 31, 2024 and 2023.
Payments Due by Period
AS AT DEC. 31, 2024
(MILLIONS) <1 Year 2 to 3 Years 4 to 5 Years After 5 Years Total 
Principal repayments
Corporate borrowings1
    ............................. $ 1,258 $ 1,430 $ 2,049 $ 9,495 $ 14,232 
Non-recourse borrowings of managed 
entities   ......................................................  49,898  50,501  54,518  65,643  220,560 
Subsidiary equity obligations    ..................  182  779  115  3,683  4,759 
Interest expense2
Corporate borrowings    ..............................  620  1,135  992  6,226  8,973 
Non-recourse borrowings      ........................  11,888  19,311  12,693  20,866  64,758 
Subsidiary equity obligations    ..................  176  331  302  1,794  2,603 
Lease obligations3
     .......................................  1,211  2,249  1,811  11,531  16,802 
1. Payments due in less than one year includes $767 million of short-term commercial paper as at December 31, 2024.
2. Represents the aggregated interest expense expected to be paid over the term of the obligations. Variable interest rate payments have been calculated based on current 
rates.
3. The lease obligations as disclosed in the table above include leases that are classified as finance leases, short-term leases, low-value leases and variable lease payments 
not based on an index or rate, which are immaterial.
Payments Due by Period
AS AT DEC. 31, 2023
(MILLIONS) <1 Year 2 to 3 Years 4 to 5 Years After 5 Years Total 
Principal repayments
Corporate borrowings1
    ............................. $ 604 $ 1,631 $ 1,434 $ 8,491 $ 12,160 
Non-recourse borrowings of managed 
entities   ......................................................  56,854  54,360  48,795  61,541  221,550 
Subsidiary equity obligations    ..................  932  774  44  2,395  4,145 
Interest expense2
Corporate borrowings    ..............................  520  948  821  3,975  6,264 
Non-recourse borrowings      ........................  13,461  20,000  13,970  22,156  69,587 
Subsidiary equity obligations    ..................  169  253  174  933  1,529 
Lease obligations3
     .......................................  1,131  2,044  1,638  12,180  16,993 
1. Payments due in less than one year includes $31 million of short-term commercial paper as at December 31, 2023.
2. Represents the aggregated interest expense expected to be paid over the term of the obligations. Variable interest rate payments have been calculated based on current 
rates.
3. The lease obligations as disclosed in the table above include leases that are classified as finance leases, short-term leases, low-value leases and variable lease payments 
not based on an index or rate, which are immaterial.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 227

27. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
a) Related Parties
Related parties include subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures, key management personnel, the Board of Directors 
(“Directors”), immediate family members of key management personnel and Directors and entities which are directly or 
indirectly controlled by, jointly controlled by or significantly influenced by key management personnel, Directors or their close 
family members.
b) Key Management Personnel and Directors
Key management personnel are those individuals who have the authority and responsibility for planning, directing and 
controlling the company’s activities, directly or indirectly, and consist of the company’s Senior Executives. The company’s 
Directors do not plan, direct or control the activities of the company directly; they provide oversight over the business.
The remuneration of key management personnel and Directors of the company during the years ended December 31, 2024 and 
2023 was as follows:
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Salaries, incentives and short-term benefits   ....................................................................................................... $ 5 $ 5 
Share-based payments ........................................................................................................................................  21  19 
$ 26 $ 24 
The remuneration of key management personnel and Directors is determined by the Management Resources and Compensation 
Committee of the Board of Directors having regard to the performance of individuals and alignment of interests between 
shareholders, Directors, and key management personnel.
c) Related Party Transactions
In the normal course of operations, the company executes transactions on market terms with related parties that have been 
measured at exchange value and are recognized in the consolidated financial statements, including, but not limited to: base 
management fees, performance fees and incentive distributions; loans, interest and non-interest bearing deposits; power 
purchase and sale agreements; capital commitments to private funds; the acquisition and disposition of assets and businesses; 
derivative contracts; and the construction and development of assets. Transactions and balances between consolidated entities 
are fully eliminated upon consolidation. However, transactions and balances between the company and equity accounted 
investments do not eliminate. 
The following table lists the related party balances included within the consolidated financial statements for the years ended 
December 31, 2024 and 2023:
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(MILLIONS) 2024 2023
Management fees earned  .................................................................................................................................... $ 304 $ 149 
The company provided BWS with an equity commitment in the amount of $2.0 billion to fund future growth, which BWS may 
draw on from time to time. As of December 31, 2024, there was no amount drawn under this equity commitment (2023 – $nil).
BWS may seek to add duration and diversification to its investment portfolio by acquiring public and private assets across 
many asset classes, including, but not limited to, real estate, royalties, public securities, and private credit. These investments 
could be made in the open market or from the Corporation and its related party affiliate entities. 
During the year, the Corporation invested incremental capital in BWS to support the business as it continues to scale. 
Specifically, in the second quarter of 2024, the Corporation contributed approximately $1 billion of BAM shares in exchange 
for BWS Class C shares to support the acquisition of AEL. In the fourth quarter of 2024, the Corporation transferred a 
$1 billion economic interest in BBU in exchange for BWS Class C shares to capitalize the business and support its growth. 
Both transactions were at arm’s length on market terms, and on a combined basis with BWS, the Corporation continues to hold 
a 66% interest in BBU.
In addition, BWS acquired $2.2 billion of real estate from the Corporation and approximately $3.5 billion of other assets and 
non-recourse debt issued by the Corporation and its subsidiaries for cash consideration. These transactions were at arm’s length 
on market terms and are expected to support the continued repositioning of BWS’s investment portfolio.
Following the completion of the partial sale of BSREP IV to BWS, our investment in BSREP IV was deconsolidated and 
recognized within equity accounted investments. BN was issued additional Class C shares in BWS as consideration for the 
acquisition by BWS.
As at December 31, 2024, BWS, Partners Value Investments Inc., and Oaktree had cash on deposit with wholly-owned 
subsidiaries of the company of $493 million, $107 million, and $nil, respectively (2023 – $266 million, $133 million, and 
$40 million, respectively).
228 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

28. OTHER INFORMATION
a) Guarantees and Contingencies
In the normal course of business, the company enters into contractual obligations which include commitments to provide bridge 
financing and letters of credit and guarantees provided in respect of power sales contracts and reinsurance obligations as well as 
capital expenditure commitments related to contracted project costs assumed as part of recent acquisitions. As at December 31, 
2024, the company had $6.3 billion (2023 – $6.2 billion) of such commitments outstanding. 
In addition, the company executes agreements that provide for indemnifications and guarantees to third parties in transactions 
or dealings such as business dispositions, business acquisitions, sales of assets, provision of services, securitization agreements 
and underwriting and agency agreements. The company has also agreed to indemnify its directors and certain of its officers and 
employees. The nature of substantially all of the indemnification undertakings prevents the company from making a reasonable 
estimate of the maximum potential amount the company could be required to pay third parties, as in most cases the agreements 
do not specify a maximum amount, and the amounts are dependent upon the outcome of future contingent events, the nature 
and likelihood of which cannot be determined at this time. Neither the company nor its consolidated subsidiaries have made 
significant payments in the past, nor do they expect at this time to make any significant payments under such indemnification 
agreements in the future. 
The company periodically enters into joint venture, consortium or other arrangements that have contingent liquidity rights in 
favor of the company or its counterparties. These include buy sell arrangements, registration rights and other customary 
arrangements. These agreements generally have embedded protective terms that mitigate the risk to us. The amount, timing and 
likelihood of any payments by the company under these arrangements is, in most cases, dependent on either future contingent 
events or circumstances applicable to the counterparty and therefore cannot be determined at this time. 
The company is contingently liable with respect to litigation and claims that arise in the normal course of business. It is not 
reasonably possible that any of the ongoing litigation as at December 31, 2024 could result in a material settlement liability.
The company has insurance for damage and business interruption costs sustained as a result of an act of terrorism. The amount 
of coverage is reviewed on an individual basis and can range up to $4 billion. However, a terrorist act could have a material 
effect on the company’s assets to the extent damages exceed coverage.
The company, through its subsidiaries within the residential properties operations, is contingently liable for obligations of its 
associates in its land development joint ventures. In each case, all of the assets of the joint venture are available first for the 
purpose of satisfying these obligations, with the balance shared among the participants in accordance with predetermined joint 
venture arrangements.
As discussed in Note 19 Subsidiary Equity Obligations, in 2014, BPY issued $1.8 billion of exchangeable preferred equity 
units in three $600 million tranches redeemable in 2021, 2024 and 2026, respectively. The preferred equity units were 
originally exchangeable into equity units of BPY at $25.70 per unit, at the option of the holder, at any time up to and including 
the maturity date. Following the BPY privatization, the preferred equity units became exchangeable into cash equal to the value 
of the consideration that would have been received upon the BPY privatization (a combination of cash, BN and BAM shares, 
and New LP Preferred Units), based on the value of that consideration on the date of exchange. BPY also has the option of 
delivering the actual consideration (a combination of cash, BN and BAM shares, and New LP Preferred Units). Following the 
BPY privatization, we have agreed with the holder to grant the company the right to purchase all or any portion of the preferred 
equity units of the holder at maturity, and to grant the holder the right to sell all or any portion of the preferred equity units of 
the holder at maturity, in each case at a price equal to the issue price for such preferred equity units plus accrued and unpaid 
distributions. On December 30, 2021 and December 31, 2024, the company acquired the tranches redeemable in 2021 and 2024 
from the holder and subsequently exchanged such units for LP Units and Redemption-Exchange Units of BPY. The preferred 
equity units were subsequently cancelled.
b) Supplemental Cash Flow Information
During the year, the company capitalized $477 million (2023 – $471 million) of interest primarily to investment properties and 
residential inventory under development.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 229

Shareholder Information
Shareholder Enquiries
Shareholder enquiries should be directed to our Investor Relations 
group at:
Brookfield Corporation
Brookfield Place, 181 Bay Street, Suite 100
Toronto, Ontario M5J 2T3
T: 416-363-9491 or toll free in North America: 1-866-989-0311
E: bn.enquiries@brookfield.com
www.bn.brookfield.com
Shareholder enquiries relating to dividends, address changes and share 
certificates should be directed to our Transfer Agent:
TSX Trust Company
301 - 100 Adelaide Street West
Toronto, ON M5H 4H1
T: 1-800-387-0825 (North America)
    416-682-3860 (outside North America) 
F: 1-888-249-6189 (North America)
    514-985-8843 (outside North America) 
E: shareholderinquiries@tmx.com
www.tsxtrust.com 
Investor Relations and Communications
We are committed to informing our shareholders of our progress through our 
comprehensive communications program which includes publication of 
materials such as our annual report, quarterly interim reports and news releases. 
We also maintain a website that provides ready access to these materials, as well 
as statutory filings, stock and dividend information and other presentations.
Meeting with shareholders is an integral part of our communications program. 
Directors and management meet with Brookfield’s shareholders at our annual 
meeting and are available to respond to questions. Management is also available 
to investment analysts, financial advisors and media.
The text of our 2024 Annual Report is available in French on request from the 
company and is filed with and available through SEDAR+ at www.sedarplus.ca.
Dividends
The quarterly dividend payable on Class A shares is declared in U.S. dollars. 
Registered shareholders who are U.S. residents receive their dividends in U.S. 
dollars, unless they request the Canadian dollar equivalent. Registered 
shareholders who are Canadian residents receive their dividends in the Canadian 
dollar equivalent, unless they request to receive dividends in U.S. dollars. The 
Canadian dollar equivalent of the quarterly dividend is based on the Bank of 
Canada daily average exchange rate on the record date, which is 15 days prior to 
the payment date for the dividend.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
The Corporation has a Dividend Reinvestment Plan which enables registered 
holders of Class A Shares who are resident in Canada and the U.S. to receive 
their dividends in the form of newly issued Class A shares.
Registered shareholders of our Class A shares who are resident in the United 
States may elect to receive their dividends in the form of newly issued Class A 
shares at a price equal to the volume-weighted average price (in U.S. dollars) at 
which board lots of Class A Shares have traded on the New York Stock 
Exchange based on the average closing price during each of the five trading days 
immediately preceding the relevant Investment Date 1 on which at least one 
board lot of Class A Shares has traded, as reported by the New York Stock 
Exchange (the “NYSE VWAP”).
Registered shareholders of our Class A shares who are resident in Canada may 
also elect to receive their dividends in the form of newly issued Class A shares 
at a price equal to the NYSE VWAP multiplied by an exchange factor which is 
calculated as the average of the daily average exchange rates as reported by the 
Bank of Canada during each of the five trading days immediately preceding the 
relevant Investment Date.
Our Dividend Reinvestment Plan allows current shareholders of the Corporation 
who are resident in Canada and the United States to increase their investment in 
the Corporation free of commissions. Further details on the Dividend 
Reinvestment Plan and a Participation Form can be obtained from our Toronto 
office, our transfer agent or from our website.
Stock Exchange Listings
 Symbol Stock Exchange
Class A Limited Voting Shares BN New York
BN Toronto
Class A Preference Shares
Series 2 BN.PR.B Toronto
Series 4 BN.PR.C Toronto
Series 13 BN.PR.K Toronto
Series 17 BN.PR.M Toronto
Series 18 BN.PR.N Toronto
Series 24 BN.PR.R Toronto
Series 26 BN.PR.T Toronto
Series 28 BN.PR.X Toronto
Series 30 BN.PR.Z Toronto
Series 32 BN.PF.A Toronto
Series 34 BN.PF.B Toronto
Series 36 BN.PF.C Toronto
Series 37 BN.PF.D Toronto
Series 38 BN.PF.E Toronto
Series 40 BN.PF.F Toronto
Series 42 BN.PF.G Toronto
Series 44 BN.PF.H Toronto
Series 46 BN.PF.I Toronto
Series 48 BN.PF.J Toronto
Series 51 BN.PF.K Toronto
Series 52 BN.PF.L Toronto
1 “Investment Date” means each dividend payment date upon which cash dividends paid on all Class A Shares registered in the name of a shareholder, net of any 
applicable withholding taxes, are reinvested.
Dividend Record and Payment Dates
Security1 Record Date2 Payment Date3
Class A and Class B shares 15 days prior to the payment date Last day of March, June, September and December
Class A Preference shares
Series 2, 4, 13, 17, 18, 24, 26, 28, 30
  32, 34, 36, 37, 38, 40, 42, 44, 46 and 48 15th day of March, June, September and December Last day of March, June, September and December
Series 51 Last day of each month 12th day of following month
Series 52 15th day of January, April, July and October First day of February, May, August and November
1.    All dividend payments are subject to declaration by the Board of Directors.
2.    If the Record Date is not a business day, the Record Date will be the previous business day.
3.    If the Payment Date is not a business day, the Payment Date will be the previous business day.
230 BROOKFIELD CORPORATION

Board of Directors and Officers
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
M. Elyse Allan, C.M. 
Former President and Chief Executive 
Officer, General Electric Canada 
Company Inc. and former Vice-President, 
General Electric Company
Maureen Kempston Darkes, O.C., O.ONT. 
Former Group Vice-President and 
President, Latin America, 
Africa and Middle East, 
General Motors Corporation
Lord O’Donnell 
Ambassador, Frontier Economics Ltd.
Jeffrey M. Blidner 
Vice Chair, 
Brookfield Corporation
Brian D. Lawson 
Vice Chair, Brookfield Corporation
Hutham S. Olayan
Chair of the Shareholders Board of The 
Olayan Group, former Chair of the Corporate 
Board of The Olayan Group and former
President and CEO of Olayan America
Jack L. Cockwell, C.M. 
Chair, Brookfield Partners Foundation 
Howard S. Marks
Co-chair, Oaktree Capital Management 
L.P.
Satish Rai
Chair of Richcraft Properties and Vice-Chair 
of Forum Asset Management, and former 
Senior Advisor and Chief Investment Officer 
of OMERS
Bruce Flatt 
Chief Executive Officer, 
Brookfield Corporation and
Brookfield Asset Management Ltd.
Hon. Frank J. McKenna, P.C., O.C., O.N.B. 
Chair, Brookfield Corporation
and Deputy Chair, TD Bank Group
Diana L. Taylor 
Former Superintendent of Banks for the 
State of New York, Deputy Secretary to the 
Governor of New York and Chief Financial 
Officer for the Long Island Power Authority
Janice Fukakusa, C.M., F.C.P.A., F.C.A.
Former Chief Administrative Officer and 
Chief Financial Officer, 
Royal Bank of Canada
Rafael Miranda
Former Chief Executive Officer,
Endesa, S.A.
Details on Brookfield’s directors are provided in the Management Information Circular and on Brookfield’s website at 
www.brookfield.com.
CORPORATE OFFICERS
Bruce Flatt, Chief Executive Officer 
Nicholas Goodman, President and Chief Financial Officer
Justin B. Beber, Chief Operating Officer
`
Brookfield incorporates sustainable development practices within our corporation. 
This document was printed in Canada using vegetable-based inks on FSC® stock.
 2024 ANNUAL REPORT 231

This page is intentionally left blank



REGIONAL OFFICES (BROOKFIELD & OAKTREE)
North America
Bermuda 
Brentwood 
Calgary 
Chicago 
Dallas 
Houston 
Los Angeles 
Stamford 
South America
Bogotá 
 
Europe / Middle East
Amsterdam 
Dublin 
Frankfurt 
Luxembourg 
Madrid 
Paris 
Stockholm 
Zurich 
Dubai 
Riyadh 
Asia Pacific
Sydney 
Beijing 
Hong Kong 
Mumbai 
Seoul 
Shanghai 
Singapore 
Tokyo 
Brookfield.com
NYSE: BN  
TSX: BN
BROOKFIELD CORPORATION
United States
333 South Grand Avenue  
28th Floor 
Los Angeles, CA  90071 
+1.213.830.6300
OAKTREE CORPORATE OFFICES
United States
1301 Avenue of the Americas 
34th Floor 
New York, NY 10019 
+1.212.284.1900
United Kingdom
Verde 
10 Bressenden Place 
London SW1E 5DH 
+44.20.7201.4600
Hong Kong
Suite 2001, 20/F 
Champion Tower 
3 Garden Road 
Central 
+852.3655.6800
BROOKFIELD CORPORATE OFFICES
United States
Brookfield Place 
250 Vesey Street 
15th Floor 
New York, NY 
10281-0221 
+1.212.417.7000
Brazil
Avenida das Nações Unidas, 
14.401 
Parque da Cidade-Torre Paineira 
15º andar  
São Paulo–SP 
CEP 04794-000 
+55 (11) 2540.9150
Canada
Brookfield Place 
181 Bay Street, Suite 100 
Bay Wellington Tower 
Toronto, ON M5J 2T3 
+1.416.363.9491
United Arab Emirates
Level 24, ICD Brookfield Place 
Al Mustaqbal Street, DIFC 
P.O. Box 507234 
Dubai 
+971.4.597.0100
United Kingdom
One Canada Square 
Level 25 
Canary Wharf 
London  E14 5AA 
+44.20.7659.3500
India 
Unit 1 
4th Floor, Godrej BKC 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Mumbai 400 051 
+91.22.6600.0700
Australia
Brookfield Place 
Level 19 
10 Carrington Street 
Sydney, NSW 2000 
+61.2.9158.5100
China
Unit 01, 11F 
Tower C, One East 
No. 768 South Zhongshan 1st Road 
Huangpu District, Shanghai 
200023 
+86.21.2306.0700