Source ID: PS-VD-059
Firm: Partners Group (PGHN)
Title: Partners Group Corporate Governance Report 2024
Document Type: Governance Report
Bias Tag: company-produced
Seed URL: https://www.partnersgroup.com/~/media/Files/P/Partnersgroup/Universal/shareholders/reports-and-presentations/2025/pghn-corporate-governance-report-2024.pdf
Loaded URL: https://www.partnersgroup.com/~/media/files/p/partnersgroup/universal/shareholders/reports-and-presentations/2025/pghn-corporate-governance-report-2024.pdf
Partners Group is committed to effective 
corporate governance for the benefit of its 
shareholders, clients, employees, and other 
stakeholders with the core principles of 
entrepreneurial governance, accountability, and 
transparency. Partners Group has entities in 
various jurisdictions regulated by, including but 
not limited to, the Swiss Financial Market 
Supervisory Authority, the US Securities and 
Exchange Commission, the United Kingdom 
Financial Conduct Authority, the Monetary 
Authority of Singapore, the Luxembourg 
Commission de Surveillance du Secteur 
Financier, and the German Bundesanstalt für 
Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht. Partners Group's 
governance ensures compliance with all rules 
and regulations issued by the regulators in the 
jurisdictions in which each of its entities 
operates. Partners Group writes its Corporate 
Governance Report according to the 'Directive 
on Information relating to Corporate 
Governance' (including its annex) issued by the 
SIX Exchange Regulation and also takes into 
account the 'Swiss Code of Best Practice for 
Corporate Governance' issued by 
economiesuisse.
Any references and weblinks to the articles of 
association of Partners Group Holding AG in this 
Corporate Governance Report are to the 
English version of the articles of association. 
Please note that the official, binding version of 
the articles of association of Partners Group 
Holding AG is in German only and the English 
version is an unofficial translation thereof. The 
official German version is also available on the 
website of Partners Group under 
www.partnersgroup.com/
articlesofassociation_DE .
The Corporate Governance Report contains 
information on the following: 
1. Group structure and shareholders
2. Capital structure
3. Board of Directors
4. Executive Team
5. Compensation, shareholdings, and loans
6. Shareholders’ participation rights
7. Changes of control and defense measures
8. Auditors
9. Information policy
10. Quiet periods
11. Non-applicability/negative disclosure
Annual Report 2024 1
Corporate 
Governance 
Report

In this Corporate Governance Report, 
references to 'Partners Group,' the 'firm,' the 
'company,' the 'entity,' 'we,' 'us,' and 'our' are to 
Partners Group Holding AG together with its 
consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context 
requires otherwise. Furthermore, the board of 
directors of Partners Group Holding AG shall be 
referred to as the 'Board' or 'Board of Directors'.
Partners Group legal group structure
1 Formed for the purpose of purchasing, construction, maintenance or management of land and property (non-investment related)
2 Formed for the purpose of providing invoice handling, cash management, cost recharging and other related administrative services
3 Formed for the purpose of purchasing and holding pre-dominantly minority investments in real estate operating companies
4 Managed by Partners Group (Guernsey) Limited, its General Partner
Source: Partners Group, as of 31 December 2024. The purpose of the chart above is to provide an overview of the group structure of Partners Group Holding AG and its subsidiaries/affiliates. The ownership percentages reflected in the 
chart are meant for illustrative purposes and are rounded. 
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 2

1. Group structure and 
shareholders
1.1. Group structure
1.1.1. Description
Partners Group operates through majority or 
wholly owned direct or indirect subsidiaries in 
Switzerland, the United States, Luxembourg, 
Germany, the United Kingdom, Guernsey, 
Singapore, and other jurisdictions. The chart on 
the previous page provides an overview of the 
legal group structure as of 31 December 2024, 
whereas the chart on this page provides an 
illustration of the operational group structure as 
of 31 December 2024 . The composition of the 
Executive Team changed throughout 2024. 
Refer to section 4.1 (Members of the Executive 
Team) for further details on Executive Team 
changes. For more details on segment reporting 
please refer to note 1.2. (Segment information) 
to the consolidated financial statements for the 
years ended 31 December 2024 and 2023 in the 
Annual Report 2024.
Operational group structure (as of 31 
December 2024) 1
1.1.2. Listed companies belonging to 
the Group
Partners Group Holding AG is a stock 
corporation incorporated under Swiss law with 
its registered office and headquarters at 
Unternehmer-Park 3, 6340 Baar-Zug. The 
shares of Partners Group are listed pursuant to 
the International Reporting Standard on the SIX 
Swiss Exchange AG under the valor number 
2460882 and ISIN CH0024608827. The 
market capitalization of the company as of 31 
December 2024  was CHF 32.8 billion. All other 
group companies are privately held.
1.1.3. Non-listed companies 
belonging to the Group
For detailed information on the non-listed 
subsidiaries of Partners Group Holding AG as of 
31 December 2024, including names, country of 
incorporation, registered office, share capital, 
and ownership interests, please see note 6  
(Participations) to the financial statements of 
Partners Group Holding AG in the Annual Report 
2024.
1.2. Significant shareholders
Partners Group Holding AG has the following 
significant shareholders within the meaning of 
Art. 120 para. 1 of the Financial Market 
Infrastructure Act holding over 3% of the shares 
and voting rights of Partners Group Holding AG 
as of 31 December 2024 .
Significant shareholders  (in %; as of 
31 December 2024):
Urs Wietlisbach, Schindellegi, Switzerland 5.08%
Dr. Marcel Erni, Zug, Switzerland 5.02%
Alfred Gantner, Meggen, Switzerland, together 
with family members2 5.02%
BlackRock, Inc., New York (NY), USA (Mother 
Company) 5.02%
UBS Fund Management (Switzerland) AG 5.01%
As of 31 December 2024 , Part ners Group held 
795'965 treasury shares, corresponding to 
2.98% of the total shar e capital.
All disclosure notifications according to Art. 120 
et seqq. of the Financial Market Infrastructure 
Act, pertaining to shareholdings in Partners 
Group Holding AG, can be found on the SIX 
Exchange Regulation homepage: https://
www.ser-ag.com/en/resources/notifications-
market-participants/significant-
shareholders.html#/ .
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 3
1 Details on the organizational changes to senior management from 1 January  2025 can be found on page 165.
2 The group is based on a shareholders' agreement with Alfred Gantner acting as representative of the group. Further details on the group members can be found on the SIX Exchange Regulation webpage: https://www.ser-ag.com/en/resources/notifications-market-participants/significant-shareholders.html#/shareholder-details/TBNCU00018

1.3. Cross-shareholdings
Partners Group has no cross-shareholdings of 
5% or more with another company or group of 
companies.
2. Capital structure
2.1. Capital
The issued nominal share capital of Partners 
Group Holding AG amounts to CHF 267’000, 
divided into 26’700’000 fully paid-in registered 
shares with a nominal value of CHF 0.01 each.
2.2. Capital band and 
conditional share capital
At the annual general meeting of shareholders 
('Annual General Meeting') on 22 May 2024, 
Partners Group's shareholders introduced a 
capital band ( Kapitalband ). Under the capital 
band, the Board of Directors of the company is 
authorized to increase the share capital of the 
company up to the amount of CHF 293'700 (the 
upper limit). Capital reductions are not allowed 
under the capital band.
The Board of Directors is authorized to   
increase the share capital within the capital band 
until 22 May 2029 once or several times and in 
any amounts up to the upper limit of CHF 
293'700. The capital increase(s) may be 
effected by issuing up to 2'670'000 fully paid-in 
registered shares with a par value of CHF 0.01 
per share. If the share capital is increased from 
conditional capital (see below), the upper limit of 
the capital band increases accordingly. For 
further details on the capital band (incl. the terms 
and conditions of the capital increase and the 
restriction or withdrawal of pre-emptive 
subscription rights) please refer to Art. 3b of the 
articles of association ( available at 
www.partnersgroup.com/
articlesofassociation ).
As of 31 December 2024 , the following 
conditional share capital ( bedingtes Kapital ) is 
available to Partners Group’s Board of Directors: 
a maximum amount of CHF 40’050 through the 
issuance of no more than 4’005’000 registered 
shares, with restricted transferability, that are to 
be fully paid in and that have a nominal value of 
CHF 0.01 each.
The right to subscribe to new shares as part of 
the conditional share capital increase is granted 
to members of the Board of Directors and 
employees of Partners Group through the 
exercise of option rights (the 'Beneficiaries'). 
Subscription and preemptive rights of 
shareholders are excluded for this conditional 
capital increase in favor of the Beneficiaries. The 
Board of Directors will determine all details of 
the terms of issue, such as the amount of issue, 
date of dividend entitlement, and kind of 
contribution, and will establish the related equity 
investment plan. The acquisition of the 
registered shares by exercising the option rights 
and the further transfer of the shares are subject 
to the transfer restrictions set forth in section 
2.6 (Limitation on transferability, and nominee 
registration) below. See also Art. 3a of the 
articles of association (available at 
www.partnersgroup.com/
articlesofassociation ).
2.3. Changes in capital
No changes in share capital have occurred 
during the last three years.
2.4. Shares and participation 
certificates
Partners Group has issued 26’700’000 fully 
paid-in registered shares with a nominal value of 
CHF 0.01 each in accordance with our articles of 
association (available at  www.partnersgroup.co
m/articlesofassociation ). The shares have been 
issued in the form of intermediated securities 
(Bucheffekten ). Shareholders do not have the 
right to ask for printing, emission, or delivery of 
share certificates. Shareholders may, however, 
request at any time that Partners Group issues 
an attestation of their stock holding.
All shares have equal rights. With the exception 
of the treasury shares held by the company, 
each share carries one vote at shareholders’ 
meetings. Voting rights and certain other non-
economic rights attached to the shares, 
including the right to call and to attend 
shareholders’ meetings, may be exercised only 
after a shareholder has been registered in the 
share register of Partners Group as a 
shareholder with voting rights. Each share is 
entitled to dividend payments, the amount of 
which is determined based on the nominal value 
of each such share. For details regarding 
shareholders' subscription rights (and exclusion 
of subscription rights) please refer to Art. 8 of 
our articles of association (available at 
www.partnersgroup.com/
articlesofassociation ).
Partners Group has not issued (non-voting) 
participation certificates ( Partizipationsscheine ).
2.5. Dividend-right certificates
Partners Group has not issued any dividend-
right certificates ( Genussscheine ).
2.6. Limitation on 
transferability, and nominee 
registration
Transferees of shares will, upon request, be 
recorded in the share register as shareholders 
with voting rights if they declare explicitly that (i) 
they have purchased these shares in their own 
name and for their own account, (ii) no 
agreements exist regarding the redemption or 
the return of these shares, and (iii) they bear the 
economic risk associated with the shares. The 
Board of Directors may grant exceptions to this 
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 4

rule in relation to the trading of shares, for 
example the recording of persons holding 
shares in the name of third parties ('Nominees'). 
Nominees may be entered in the share register 
with voting rights for a maximum of 5% of the 
total nominal share capital entered in the 
commercial register and may be allowed to 
exceed this limit if they disclose the names, 
addresses and shareholdings of the persons on 
account of whom they are holding 0.5% or more 
of the share capital entered in the commercial 
register. The Board of Directors concludes 
agreements with such Nominees in relation to 
disclosure requirements, representation of 
shares, and exercise of voting rights.
In addition, the Board of Directors may decline a 
request for registration as shareholder in the 
share register with voting rights in the share 
register or the establishment of a usufruct if the 
transferee would have at its disposal more than 
10% of the total nominal share capital of 
Partners Group Holding AG. If shares have been 
acquired due to inheritance or matrimonial 
property law, the transferee may not be 
declined. 
If the registration of a transferee has been made 
based on false representations of the 
transferee, it may be deleted from the share 
register once the transferee has been provided 
with the opportunity to be heard.
Amendments to the applicable transfer 
restrictions regime require shareholder 
approval with a quorum of at least two-thirds of 
the represented votes and the absolute majority 
of the represented nominal share capital.
During the financial year 2024, no exceptions to 
the limitations on transferability and nominee 
registration were granted.
For more details, please see Art. 6 of our articles 
of association (available at 
www.partnersgroup.com/
articlesofassociation ). 
2.7. Bonds, convertible bonds, 
and options 
A summary of all bonds outstanding as of 31 
December 2024  is listed below.
In June 2019, Partners Group issued a corporate 
bond, raising CHF 500 million through a fixed-
rate senior unsecured CHF-denominated issue 
(ISIN: CH0419041287). The bond was issued 
with an eight-year term and a coupon of 0.40% 
and matures on 21 June 2027. 
In September 2023, Partners Group further 
issued two corporate bonds. The firm raised 
CHF 150 million through a first fixed-rate senior 
unsecured CHF-denominated bond (ISIN: 
CH1293714346). The bond was issued with a 
five-year tenor, a coupon of 2.25%, and matures 
on 26 September 2028. The firm raised a further 
CHF 180 million through a first fixed-rate senior 
unsecured CHF-denominated bond (ISIN: 
CH1293714353). The bond was issued with a 
ten-year tenor, a coupon of 2.40%, and matures 
on 26 September 2033.
In June 2024, Partners Group issued two 
corporate bonds. The firm raised CHF 200 
million through a fixed-rate senior unsecured 
bond (Tranche A) with a six-year tenor, a 
coupon of 1.9%, and maturing on 7 June 2030 
(ISIN: CH1346742930). Additionally, the firm 
raised CHF 300 million through another fixed-
rate senior unsecured bond (Tranche B) with a 
ten-year tenor, a coupon of 2.15%, and maturing 
on 7 June 2034 (ISIN: CH1346742948).
The net proceeds from these bonds will be used 
for general corporate purposes. The bonds are 
issued in denominations of CHF 5,000 each and 
are classified as senior unsecured debt without 
the right to request physical delivery or 
conversion into certificated securities. Please 
see note 3.2.2. of the consolidated financial 
statements in the Annual Report 2024 for 
comprehensive information on the bonds issued 
by the firm.
Since 30 June 2000, Partners Group has 
established regular share and option programs 
that entitle management personnel and a large 
number of employees to purchase and/or hold 
shares in the entity. The options can be settled 
either by the issuance of shares out of 
conditional share capital or by the delivery of 
existing shares (treasury shares). Please see 
note 2.2. of the consolidated financial 
statements in the Annual Report 2024 for 
comprehensive information on the share and 
option program of the firm.
Partners Group currently has no convertible 
bonds outstanding and has not issued any 
further convertible bonds or options.
3. Board of Directors
Partners Group’s Board Governance
—
Partners Group’s Board of Directors is 
entrusted with the ultimate responsibility for 
Partners Group’s strategy and development. 
The Board applies the same 'entrepreneurial 
governance' approach to its own firm as 
Partners Group applies to its portfolio 
companies.
Partners Group defines the 'entrepreneurial 
governance' approach by the concept that 
governance must be based on strategy and the 
objective of creating and sustaining a winning 
business model. Boards and management 
teams must be set up from the outset to achieve 
this strategy and vision. The ability of each 
Board member, individually and as part of a 
combined team, to actively contribute to 
defining and driving forward strategy and 
achieving business objectives is a critically 
defining element of 'entrepreneurial 
governance'.
As of 31 December 2024, the Board of Directors 
consists of seven members: four executive 
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 5

Board members — the Executive Chairman and 
the three founders — and three independent 
Board members. All members were elected at 
the Annual General Meeting 2024 for a one-year 
tenure with the possibility of re-election. None of 
the Board members have line management 
functions. Through the Board’s committees, 
Board members contribute to investment- as 
well as client-related activities and operationally 
focused initiatives. The Chairman also oversees 
the Executive Team in leading the operations 
and in executing the strategy.
The Executive Chairman typically invests 3-5 
days a week towards his mandate. The founders 
dedicate approximately 2-3 days a week to 
Partners Group’s Board activities. Independent 
Board members devote 1-2 days a week to their 
Board mandates. The substantial time 
commitment of Partners Group’s Board is the 
foundation of a successful governance model 
geared towards enabling proactive value 
creation.
3.1. Members of the Board of 
Directors
All members of the Board of Directors of 
Partners Group Holding AG are also members of 
the Board of Directors ('the Board') of Partners 
Group AG, a 100% subsidiary of Partners Group 
Holding AG. Select members of the Board of 
Directors of Partners Group Holding AG are also 
members of the Board of Directors of other 
operating entities of the group.
The following provides information on the 
independence criteria for members of the Board 
of Directors and on the professional background 
and education of each such member, including 
other significant activities in governing and 
supervisory bodies of important financial 
organizations, institutions, and foundations 
under private and public law, permanent 
management and consultancy functions for 
important Swiss and foreign interest groups, 
official functions, and political posts.
Independence statement for members of 
the Board
—
Best practice in corporate governance calls for 
the independence of selected Board members 
as an important element of its quality and 
integrity. However, codes of best practice, 
regulators, and proxy advisors tend to use 
different criteria and no globally accepted 
standard has yet emerged. Having reviewed a 
series of possible criteria from different sources, 
ranging from financial market authorities, 
various stock exchanges and codes of best 
practice to foundations and independent asset 
managers with a focus on sustainable corporate 
development, Partners Group recognizes 
differences in the definition of Board member 
independence. Partners Group follows the 
general corporate governance principle of 
'comply or explain' and therefore applies the 
following criteria to evaluate the independence 
of its Board members.
First and foremost, when searching for an 
external independent member of the Board, 
Partners Group looks for accomplished, 
distinctive, and competent personalities who are 
respected based on their achievements. 
Moreover, they are selected based on their 
ability to contribute relevant professional skills, 
commit substantial capacity and add to the 
diversity of the Board in terms of background 
and unbiased perspectives. In our view, these 
selection criteria represent the essence of true 
independence.
In addition, Partners Group applies several 
formal criteria for Board member independence. 
Independent members of the Board may not:
• have a line management function (i.e. 
positions with substantial decision-making 
authority) for Partners Group, or any of its 
affiliates, currently or in the three years prior 
to their appointment;
• be employed or otherwise affiliated with our 
statutory auditors, currently or in the three 
years prior to their appointment;
• once appointed to the Board, have an overall 
tenure of more than ten years.
Partners Group also applies the following 
additional criteria to independent Board 
members, whereby the materiality of such 
criteria is evaluated on a case-by-case basis:
• limited financial dependence on Partners 
Group in terms of employment, income, and 
shareholding relative to their individual 
overall situation; and
• no material direct or indirect business 
relationship with Partners Group or any of its 
affiliates (except as an investor in Partners 
Group products).
As a result of this evaluation process (which is 
reviewed annually) we consider the following 
current Board members as independent: Anne 
Lester, Gaëlle Olivier (ad-interim Lead 
Independent Director), and Flora Zhao. The total 
number of independent Board members 
amounted to three as of 31 December 2024.
None of the independent Board members, nor 
any of their close family members, have ever 
been members of the senior executive 
management of Partners Group, nor of any of its 
subsidiaries, nor do they have any significant 
business connections with either Partners 
Group or one of its subsidiaries. None of the 
independent Board members exercise any 
official functions or hold a political post, nor do 
they have any permanent management/
consultancy functions for significant domestic 
and foreign interest groups.
Lead Independent Director
—
By deciding not to stand for re-election as a 
member of the Board at the Annual General 
Meeting on 22 May 2024, Dr. Martin Strobel 
stepped down from the Board of Partners Group 
Holding AG due to personal reasons. At the time 
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 6

he stepped down from the Board of Partners 
Group Holding AG he also stepped down from 
his other mandates within entities of the group.
The nomination of the regular Lead Independent 
Director will be made in conjunction with the 
replacement of Dr. Martin Strobel. In the 
meantime, Gaëlle Olivier, as Chairwoman of the 
Risk & Audit Committee, Operations Oversight 
Committee, and conflict resolution board, 
assumed this role ad-interim. Prior to the 2025 
Annual General Meeting the Board is expected 
to nominate and inform about the next Lead 
Independent Director.
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 7
Partners Group campus | Baar-Zug, Switzerland


Professional background and 
education of each member of 
the Board of Directors, 
including their responsibilities 
and other activities and 
functions3,4
 Steffen Meister, Chairman
Steffen Meister is a Partner of the firm and Executive 
Chairman of the Board of Directors of Partners Group 
Holding AG, based in Zug. He is also the Chairman of 
the Investment Oversight Committee and a member of 
the Client Oversight Committee as well as of the 
Operations Oversight Committee. Steffen Meister has 
been with Partners Group since 2000 and served as 
Delegate of the Board from 2013 to 2018 and as Chief 
Executive Officer from 2005 to 2013. Prior to joining 
Partners Group, he worked at Credit Suisse Financial 
Products and had part-time assignments at Swiss 
Reinsurance Co. and the Department of Mathematics 
of the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology ('ETH') in 
Zurich. Mr. Meister holds a Master’s degree in 
Mathematics from ETH, Switzerland.
• External mandates (audited): Crossiety AG 
(Chairman), FAIRTIQ AG (Member of the Board)
• Other mandates: ETH Foundation's Board of 
Trustees
Dr. Marcel Erni
Dr. Marcel Erni co-founded Partners Group in 1996. He 
is an executive member of Partners Group Holding 
AG’s Board of Directors, based in Zug. He is also a 
member of the Investment Oversight Committee. 
Previously, Dr. Marcel Erni served as the Chief 
Investment Officer of Partners Group until June 2017. 
Prior to founding Partners Group, he worked at 
Goldman Sachs & Co. and McKinsey & Co. Mr. Erni 
holds an MBA from the University of Chicago Booth 
School of Business, Illinois and a PhD in Finance and 
Banking from the University of St. Gallen ('HSG'), 
Switzerland.
• Partners Group-related mandates (incl. portfolio 
companies):  Alpha ABMD Holdco B.V. (Member of 
Board) 5, Telepass S.p.A. (Member of Board)
• Other mandates:  Verein Kompass
Alfred Gantner
Alfred Gantner co-founded Partners Group in 1996. He 
is an executive member of Partners Group Holding 
AG’s Board of Directors, based in Zug. He is also a 
member of the Investment Oversight Committee. 
Previously, Alfred Gantner served as Chief Executive 
Officer of Partners Group from 1996 to 2005 and 
subsequently as Executive Chairman from 2005 to 
2014. He was also Chairman of Partners Group’s 
Global Investment Committee from 2011 until June 
2017. Furthermore, he has served as a board member 
at various Partners Group portfolio companies such as 
VAT, USIC, and PCI Pharma Services. Prior to founding 
Partners Group, he worked at Goldman Sachs & Co. 
Mr. Gantner holds an MBA from the Brigham Young 
University Marriott School of Management in Utah, 
USA. 
• External mandates (audited): PG3 AG 
(Chairman), Hotel Guardavalsporz AG (Chairman), 
Real North AG (Chairman), North Colours AG 
(Member of Board), Community Climate Solutions 
AG (Chairman), Real North America Inc (President)  
• Partners Group-related mandates (incl. portfolio 
companies): Esentia Energy Systems (Member of 
Board), Climeworks AG (Member of Board), 
Breitling SA (Chairman)
• Other mandates:  Verein Kompass, Second Mile 
Stiftung
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 8
3 Partners Group representatives are a member of the board of a Partners Group portfolio company or a number of special purpose vehicles established in connection with the respective investment.
4 Information provided considers the requirements of the SIX directive on corporate governance and Swiss Code of Obligations (Art. 734e CO); underlined mandates are mandates added in 2024.
5 Ammega has been rebranded and now operates under the name Alpha ABMD Holdco B.V.
New mandates

Anne Lester
Anne Lester is an independent member of the Board of 
Directors of Partners Group Holding AG. She is a 
member of the Client Oversight Committee, the Risk & 
Audit Committee, and the Nomination & Compensation 
Committee. Anne Lester has over 30 years of 
experience in senior leadership roles at JP Morgan 
Asset Management, most recently serving from 2015 
to 2020 as Managing Director, Portfolio Manager, and 
Head of Retirement Solutions in the Multi-Asset 
Solutions division where she launched JP Morgan's 
SmartRetirement Target Date franchise. She also 
founded the Aspen Leadership Forum on Retirement 
Savings in conjunction with AARP and holds three 
patents for the design of a dynamic withdrawal 
investment process and for the evaluation of target 
date funds. Ms. Lester holds a Bachelor's degree in 
Politics from Princeton University, New Jersey, USA 
and a Master's degree in International Relations from 
the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced 
International Studies, Washington, DC, USA.
• Partners Group-related mandates (incl. portfolio 
companies): Board of Partners Group's US entity 
(Member of Board)
• Other mandates: Human Interest Advisors LLC
Gaëlle Olivier
Gaëlle Olivier is an independent member of the Board 
of Directors of Partners Group Holding AG. She is the 
Chairwoman of the Operations Oversight Committee, 
the Chairwoman of the Risk & Audit Committee, and a 
member of the Nomination & Compensation 
Committee. Gaëlle Olivier has over 30 years of 
experience in financial services. After a first career in 
the financial derivatives industry, she joined AXA 
Group in 1998, where she held several senior executive 
roles over the next 20 years, ten of which were spent in 
Asia. In 2016, she was appointed CEO of AXA Group's 
Property & Casualty business, and a member of the 
AXA Group Management Committee. In 2020, Gaëlle 
Olivier joined Société Générale as Chief Executive 
Officer of Asia Pacific activities and then held the role 
of Group Deputy General Manager and Chief 
Operating Officer until the end of 2022. Gaëlle Olivier 
holds a diploma from ENSAE in France where she 
majored in Economics and also holds a diploma from 
École Polytechnique, a leading French engineering 
school, where she majored in Chemistry and 
Economics.
• External mandates (audited): Descartes 
Underwriting (Member of Board), CED Europe 
(Member of Board), Galytix (Member of Board)
• Partners Group -related mandates (incl. portfolio 
companies): Version 1 (Member of Board), Board of 
Partners Group's UK entity (Member of Board)
• Other mandates: SpVie, Ekimetrics
Urs Wietlisbach
Urs Wietlisbach co-founded Partners Group in 1996. 
He is an executive member of Partners Group Holding 
AG’s Board of Directors, based in Zug. He is also the 
Chairman of the Client Oversight Committee. Prior to 
founding Partners Group, Urs Wietlisbach worked at 
Goldman Sachs & Co. and Credit Suisse. Mr. 
Wietlisbach holds a Master’s degree in Business 
Administration from the University of St. Gallen ('HSG'), 
Switzerland.
• External mandate (audited): Blue Earth Capital 
(Chairman), Blue Earth Foundation (Chairman), 
Entrepreneur Partners AG (Member of Board), 
PG3 AG (Member of Board), LGT Private Equity 
Advisers AG (Member of Board), WieRe AG 
(Chairman), Power Source Holding AG (Member of 
Board)
• Partners Group-related mandates (incl. portfolio 
companies): KR Group (Board observer)
• Other mandates: HSG Stiftung, IWAI Leadership 
Council, Verein Kompass (Member of Board), 
Ursimone Wietlisbach Foundation 
Flora Zhao
Flora Zhao is an independent member of the Board of 
Directors of Partners Group Holding AG. She is the 
Chairwoman of the Nomination & Compensation 
Committee and a member of the Investment Oversight 
Committee as well as of the Risk & Audit Committee. 
She has over 30 years of executive experience with 
global Fortune 500 companies across the energy 
infrastructure value chain in Asia. Previously, she was 
President of Gas Asia at BP where she was 
responsible for the gas and liquefied natural gas 
business in the eastern hemisphere from 2010 to 2018. 
Prior to that, Flora was a Managing Director at AES 
Corporation, a NYSE-listed global power company 
comprising power generation, distribution, and 
alternative energy businesses. She began her career at 
the Construction Bank of China. Flora Zhao holds a 
Bachelor's degree in Engineering from Zhejiang 
University, China and a Master's degree in 
Construction Management from the University of 
Maryland, College Park, USA. She also completed the 
Senior Executive Program at the University of Virginia, 
Darden School of Business, USA. 
• External mandates (audited): Temasek 
International Pte Ltd (Senior Advisor), Pavilion 
Energy Ltd (Director)
• Partners Group-related mandates (incl. portfolio 
companies): Board of Partners Group's Singapore 
entity, Supervisor of Partners Group's Shanghai entity
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 9

Organizational changes to the Board of 
Directors
—
Dr. Martin Strobel decided not to stand for re-
election to the Board at the Annual General 
Meeting on 22 May 2024 for personal reasons. 
Therefore, he has stepped down from the Board 
of Partners Group Holding AG. For further 
details on Dr. Martin Strobel (professional 
background, education, etc.), please refer to 
page 6, in section 3.1 (Members of the Board of 
Directors) of the Corporate Governance Report 
2023, included in the Annual Report 2023 
(available at https://www.partnersgroup.com/
annual-report.pdf ).
On 27 February 2025, Partners Group 
announced the nomination of Urban Angehrn for 
election as a new independent member of its 
Board of Directors of Partners Group Holding 
AG. The nomination will be proposed at the next 
Annual General Meeting of shareholders on 21 
May 2025. Mr. Angehrn has 30 years of 
experience in the financial services sector. He 
was most recently CEO of FINMA, Switzerland’s 
financial markets supervisory authority, from 
November 2021 to September 2023. From 2015 
to 2021, he was a member of the Executive 
Committee and Group Chief Investment Officer 
of Zurich Insurance Group (“Zurich”). In this role, 
he was responsible for Zurich’s entire 
investment portfolio including operations, 
digitization, and sustainability strategy. Through 
his Board committee assignments, Mr. Angehrn 
will contribute to Partners Group’s strategic 
Board-level initiatives with a focus on insurance-
related growth initiatives, portfolio and risk 
management, digitization and corporate 
operations
3.2. Other activities and 
vested interests 
Please see note 3.1 above.
3.3. Number of permitted 
activities
In accordance with Art. 626 para. 2 item 1 of the 
Swiss Code of Obligations and Art. 25 of the 
articles of association (available at 
www.partnersgroup.com/
articlesofassociation ), each Board member may 
assume a maximum of nine additional mandates 
in companies that pursue an economic purpose, 
which includes a maximum of three additional 
mandates in listed companies. The following 
mandates are exempt from this limitation: 
mandates in legal entities controlled by Partners 
Group Holding AG; mandates that are carried 
out on behalf of, or as directed by, the company 
or any of its controlled companies in legal 
entities that are not part of the group, whereby 
each Board member may hold a maximum of ten 
such mandates; mandates in associations, non-
profit organizations, foundations, trusts, and 
employee pension foundations, whereby each 
Board member may hold a maximum of ten such 
mandates; and mandates in legal entities serving 
the sole purpose of managing their own private 
assets, whereby each Board member may hold a 
maximum of ten such mandates.
3.4. Elections and terms of 
office, succession planning, 
qualifications, and diversity
Elections and terms of office
—
The Board of Directors must consist of at least 
three members. All members, including the 
Chairman of the Board of Directors, are to be 
elected individually at the shareholders’ 
meeting, for a term of one year in accordance 
with the Swiss Code of Obligations. Re-election 
is possible. The tenure for independent Board 
members is limited to a maximum of ten years. 
There are no rules in the articles of association 
(available at www.partnersgroup.com/
articlesofassociation ) that differ from the 
statutory legal provisions with regard to the 
appointment of the Chairman, the members of 
the Nomination & Compensation Committee, 
and the independent proxy.
Succession planning
—
Succession planning is of significant importance 
to the Board of Directors. The Nomination & 
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 10
Partners Group campus | Baar-Zug, Switzerland


Compensation Committee supports the 
Chairman of the Board in the review and 
assessment of newly appointed directors. The 
Nomination & Compensation Committee 
together with the Chairman of the Board will 
oversee the development of a diverse 
succession pipeline for the Board. They 
regularly analyze its composition to confirm that 
its members’ qualifications, skills, and 
experience correspond to the Board’s needs 
and requirements. The Board of Directors 
initiates the evaluation of potential new Board 
members in a timely manner with the aim of 
continuing to ensure its members have the 
desired qualifications and experience, as well as 
to further diversify and renew its composition.
The Board of Directors nominates candidates 
for Board membership for election at the Annual 
General Meeting, ensuring that the Board 
retains an adequate size and well-balanced 
composition. All Board appointments and 
succession plans are based on merit and 
objective criteria, in the context of the skills, 
experience, independence, and knowledge 
which the Board requires to be effective.
Qualifications
—
The Board of Directors needs to secure the 
necessary qualifications, skills, and diversity to 
perform all required responsibilities. The Board 
must assemble among its members the balance 
of managerial expertise and knowledge from 
different fields required for the fulfillment of its 
oversight responsibility as well as for sound, 
independent decision-making in line with the 
needs of the business. The Board defines the 
selection criteria against which candidates for 
Board membership are assessed. The 
requirements that potential Board members 
have to meet in terms of knowledge in various 
key areas and the industry are constantly 
increasing. The Board design leans towards the 
strategic value drivers and needs of the 
organization. 
Membership on the Board of Directors requires 
skills or knowledge of matters such as private 
markets know-how, investment management, 
risk management, and/or operational 
experience (through line or general 
management roles that include profit or loss 
responsibility) as well as leadership and 
decision-making experience in large, complex 
institutions or having had broad international 
exposure.
Diversity of perspectives and experience
—
A central pillar of our diversity policy is our 
conviction that diversity of perspectives and 
experience will ultimately lead to better results 
by the Board of Directors. As we have spelled 
out in our diversity policy, Partners Group 
recognizes and embraces the benefits of having 
a Board that is adequately staffed with diverse 
and accretive skills to drive strategy and support 
value creation initiatives. A truly diverse Board 
will include and make good use of differences in 
the technical know-how, regional and industry 
experience, social and ethnic background, race, 
gender, as well as other distinctions between 
directors, such as cognitive and personal 
strengths (the 'PG Board Diversity').
Partners Group’s Board Diversity Policy is 
available to download on the website at 
www.partnersgroup.com/policiesanddirectives .
The Nomination & Compensation Committee will 
discuss and agree annually on measurable 
objectives for achieving the PG Board Diversity 
mentioned above and recommend them to the 
Board for adoption. At any given time, the Board 
may seek to improve one or more aspects of the 
objectives of the PG Board Diversity.
Based on the PG Board Diversity objectives, the 
Board has established a target of ensuring that 
the proportion of newly elected independent 
directors is composed of at least 50% of under-
represented groups on a three-year rolling-
basis. While this target is maintained going 
forward, the Board recognizes that periods of 
change in the Board composition may result in 
temporary periods when this balance is not 
achieved.
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 11
Partners Group campus | Baar-Zug, Switzerland

3.5. Internal organizational 
structure
The Board of Directors has adopted written 
internal organizational regulations for the 
management of the company and of its 
subsidiaries pursuant to Art. 716b of the Swiss 
Code of Obligations, the rules of the SIX 
Exchange Regulation, the company’s articles of 
association (available at 
www.partnersgroup.com/
articlesofassociation ), and the Swiss Federal 
Act on Collective Investment Schemes.
The Board of Directors has ultimate 
responsibility for the strategy and development 
of Partners Group. Please see page 8 and 164 
for the Board composition as well as section 3.1. 
(Members of the Board of Directors) for 
information on the allocation of tasks within the 
Board of Directors.
The Board of Directors meets as often as 
business requires, but no less than four times a 
year as set forth in the company’s Rules of 
Organization and of Operations (the 'ROO'; 
Organisationsreglement ); in 2024, five formal 
meetings were held (2023: four), which lasted 
approximately four and a half  hours on aver age, 
except for one meeting that lasted about 15 
minutes. The meetings of the Board of Directors 
were also attended by relevant participants who 
hold key functions or responsibilities within the 
company, such as members of the Executive 
Team. The formal meetings were 
complemented by regular informal interactions 
with management and employees across the 
firm as well as some matters decided via circular 
resolutions.
The Board of Directors can deliberate only when 
the majority of its members are present. 
Resolutions are adopted with the majority of the 
votes of the members present. In the event of a 
tie, the Chairman casts the deciding vote. 
Resolutions by circular letter require the 
absolute majority of all members of the Board of 
Directors unless higher quorums are provided 
by applicable provisions.
The Board of Directors has established further 
committees to promulgate and monitor related 
directives and policies:
• Risk & Audit Committee;
• Nomination & Compensation Committee;
• Client Oversight Committee;
• Operations Oversight Committee;
•  Investment Oversight Committee. 
Each committee advises the Board of Directors 
on the matters specified below, often with the 
assistance of the Executive Team and others 
involved in the management of Partners Group. 
The members and Chairs of these committees 
are determined by the Board of Directors, apart 
from the members of the Nomination & 
Compensation Committee, who are elected 
individually at the Annual General Meeting for a 
term of one year in accordance with the Swiss 
Code of Obligations. Please see the table at the 
end of this section for the composition of these 
committees.
Meetings can be called by each committee 
member or by the Chair. In order for resolutions 
or motions to be validly taken or made, the 
majority of the committee members must attend 
the meeting (in person or, if need be, via phone/
video conference). All resolutions or motions 
must be passed unanimously, otherwise the 
business activities will be re-assigned to the 
Board. Quorums and motions may also be 
passed by circular resolutions.
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 12
Partners Group campus | Denver, USA

Board member tenure, diversity, expertise and, committee membership & attendance
Tenure & role
Joined Board in 20137 1997 1997 2022 2023 1997 2022 2019
Independent / Executive Chairman & 
Executive Executive Executive Independent Independent Executive Independent Vice Chairman & 
Independent
Diversity
Gender Male Male Male Female Female Male Female Male
Birth year 1970 1965 1968 1964 1971 1961 1965 1966
Nationality Swiss Swiss Swiss American French Swiss Singaporean Swiss/German
Expertise
prior to current 
Board assignment8
Private markets industry know-how x x x x x x
C-level experience x x x x x x
Risk management x x x x x x
Broad international exposure x x x x x x x x
Investment experience x x x x x x x x
Operations x x x x x x
Technology/Cyber security x x
HR/Compensation x x x x x x
Chairmanship of Board committee Board, IOC - - - OOC, RAC COC NCC RAC
Membership & 
attendance
Board 5/5 5/5 4/5 5/5 5/5 4/5 4/5 3/3
Risk & Audit Committee ('RAC') n/a n/a n/a 5/5 5/5 n/a 3/39 2/2
Nomination & Compensation Committee ('NCC') n/a n/a n/a 2/2 2/2 n/a 2/2
Operations Oversight Committee ('OOC') 4/4 n/a n/a n/a 4/4 n/a n/a 2/2
Investment Oversight Committee ('IOC') 4/4 3/4 3/4 n/a n/a n/a 4/4 n/a
Client Oversight Committee ('COC') 7/7 n/a n/a 7/7 n/a 7/7 n/a n/a
Meeting attendance record 100% 89% 78% 100% 100% 92% 93% 100%
Steffen Meister Dr. Marcel Erni Alfred Gantner Anne Lester Gaëlle Olivier Urs Wietlisbach Flora Zhao Dr. Martin Strobel6
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 13
6 Dr. Martin Strobel retired from the Board after the 22 May 2024 Annual General Meeting for personal reasons. He served on the Board from 2019, including assignments as a member of the Risk & Audit Committee and the Investment Oversight Committee.
7 Steffen Meister also served on the Board from 2001 to 2005.
8 Experience is taken into account when the Board member is considered to have five years of experience, with the exception of international exposure and investment experience where the Board member must have ten years of experience.
9 Flora Zhao replaced Dr. Martin Strobel as member of the Risk & Audit Committee.

Risk & Audit Committee ('RAC')
—
The RAC is in charge of ensuring the diligent 
performance of internal and external auditing as 
well as financial controlling, in addition to 
performing other tasks related to risk 
management such as (i) finance risk oversight, 
(ii) operational risk oversight, and (iii) regulatory, 
legal and conduct risk oversight. In particular, 
the RAC (i) approves internal audit’s 
organization and tasks, (ii) orders the 
performance of specific audits, (iii) oversees the 
quality of the internal and external auditing, (iv) 
ensures the execution of the external audit, (v) 
makes recommendations to the Board of 
Directors regarding the nomination of external 
auditors to be appointed by the shareholders, 
(vi) reviews the financial statements and 
approves the half-year financial reports, (vii) 
monitors the financial review processes, and 
(viii) ensures the review of the management and 
internal control processes. Furthermore, the 
RAC oversees the company’s information 
security strategy. At least once a year, the RAC 
is informed by senior management on 
information security and cyber security topics 
within and outside the firm. The role of the RAC 
is primarily supervisory and its decision-making 
authority is limited to those areas which are 
ancillary to its supervisory role (see also section 
3.7.1.2). Subject to limitations provided under the 
law and the articles of association(available at 
www.partnersgroup.com/
articlesofassociation ), the RAC is presided over 
by an independent Board member. 
Until 22 May 2024, the members of the 
committee were Dr. Martin Strobel (Chairman), 
Anne Lester, and Gaëlle Olivier. As of the Annual 
General Meeting in 2024, the members of the 
RAC are Gaëlle Olivier (Chairwoman), Anne 
Lester, and Flora Zhao. The RAC held five formal 
meetings in 2024 (2023: seven), which lasted 
approximately three to three and a half hours on 
average, except for one meeting that lasted 
about 20 minutes. The firm's external auditors 
attended all five meetings. The meetings of the 
RAC may also be attended by other (non-voting) 
participants, such as other members of the 
Board of Directors or relevant non-members of 
the Board of Directors who hold key functions or 
responsibilities within the firm. The formal 
meetings were complemented by regular and 
considerable informal interactions with 
management and employees across the firm on 
regulatory, legal, conduct, and audit-related 
matters or projects.
Nomination & Compensation Committee 
('NCC')
—
The NCC advises and supports the Board of 
Directors in particular with regard to the 
determination of the compensation system and 
principles. The NCC also supports the Chairman 
with regard to the nomination of members of the 
Board of Directors and the promotion of 
executive officers of the company or its 
controlled companies, as applicable. It assesses 
the compensation proposals for the company or 
its controlled companies with regard to 
compliance with the determined principles. It 
also prepares the Compensation Report (to be 
approved by the Board of Directors) and the 
motions on the Board of Directors’ and 
executive management’s compensation to be 
submitted to the shareholders’ meeting. The 
Board of Directors may assign further tasks, 
responsibilities, and powers in compensation 
and nomination matters to the NCC. Subject to 
limitations provided under the law and the 
articles of association (available at 
www.partnersgroup.com/
articlesofassociation ), the NCC is presided over 
by an independent Board member.
Until 22 May 2024, the members of the NCC 
were Flora Zhao (Chairwoman), Anne Lester, 
and Dr. Martin Strobel. As of the Annual General 
Meeting in 2024, the members of the NCC are 
Flora Zhao (Chairwoman), Anne Lester, and 
Gaëlle Olivier. The NCC held two formal 
meetings in 2024 (2023: two), which lasted 
approximately three to three and a half hours 
each, to discuss the annual compensation for 
the Board of Directors and the Executive Team 
as well as to confirm the overall compensation 
policy. The meetings of the NCC were also 
attended by other (non-voting) participants, 
such as other members of the Board of 
Directors and relevant non-members of the 
Board of Directors who hold key functions or 
responsibilities within the firm. The formal 
meetings were complemented by regular and 
considerable informal interactions with 
management and employees across the firm on 
promotion considerations and leadership 
development projects.
Client Oversight Committee ('COC')
—
The COC advises and supports the Board and 
the Executive Team in major client-related 
initiatives as well as the development of new 
client segments and regions of the Group. The 
COC coordinates global marketing and (key) 
client activities, drives strategic fundraising 
initiatives, and identifies new key product and 
fundraising themes. In addition, it oversees the 
coverage of the firm’s key client prospects, the 
global consultant network, the firm’s global 
public relations strategy as well as its advisory 
network. 
The members of the COC are Urs Wietlisbach 
(Chairman), Anne Lester, and Steffen Meister. 
Furthermore, Stefan Näf, Partners Group 
Chairman of Clients, is a non-voting member of 
the committee. The COC held seven formal 
meetings in 2024 (2023: seven), which lasted 
approximately three hours on average. The 
meetings of the COC were also attended by 
other (non-voting) participants, such as other 
members of the Board of Directors and relevant 
non-members of the Board of Directors who 
hold key functions or responsibilities within the 
firm. The formal meetings were complemented 
by regular an d considerable informal 
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 14

interactions with management and employees 
across the firm on key client-related matters or 
projects.
Operations Oversight Committee ('OOC')
—
The OOC advises and supports the Board of 
Directors and the Executive Team in major 
projects and operationally focused topics. It 
conducts strategic assessments (including 
design, setup, and potential pitfalls of key 
projects) and reviews and supports execution 
by responsible bodies within agreed 
parameters.
The members of the OOC are Gaëlle Olivier 
(Chairwoman) and Steffen Meister. The OOC 
held four formal meetings in 2024 (2023: one, 
year of establishment), which lasted 
approximately one and a half to two hours on 
average. The chair may invite additional 
participants to its meetings, who do not need to 
be members of the Board of Directors. In 
addition to the formal meetings, the OCC 
engaged in considerable additional informal 
meetings with management and employees on 
operational and project-related matters.
Investment Oversight Committee ('IOC')
—
The IOC provides advice and support to the 
Board of Directors, the management, and the 
Investment Committees on the assessment of 
quality and consistency of investment decision-
making processes, the investment performance 
achieved, the realization of the projected 
appreciation on individual investments, and the 
investment risks incurred. It defines global 
quality standards and measurement methods 
and proposes any measures that may be 
required. Furthermore, it oversees the 
implementation of environmental, social, and 
governance ('ESG') initiatives and tracking of 
ESG performance for our direct lead assets. The 
IOC has appointed Dr. Marcel Erni and Alfred 
Gantner as voting members in the Global 
Investment Committee ('GIC') of Partners Group 
AG. The two IOC voting members have the right 
to cast a total of one vote on a particular 
transaction. Furthermore, the representatives 
have the right to veto an investment decision 
taken by the GIC.
The members of the IOC are Steffen Meister 
(Chairman), Dr. Marcel Erni, Alfred Gantner, and 
Flora Zhao. Furthermore, Dr. Stephan Schäli, 
Partners Group’s Chief Investment Officer 
('CIO'), is a non-voting member of the 
committee. The IOC held four meetings in 2024 
(2023: four), which lasted approximately three 
hours each. The meetings of the IOC were also 
attended by relevant non-members of the Board 
of Directors who hold key functions or 
responsibilities within the firm. The formal 
meetings were complemented by regular and 
considerable informal interactions with 
management and employees across the firm on 
key investment-related matters or projects.
In addition to the formal committee meetings of 
Board of Directors, executive Board members 
and the Vice Chairman of the Board 10 hold 
regular informal interactions with select 
Executive Team members through the 
Corporate Development Committee ('CDC'). 
The CDC's role as a formal Board Committee 
was discontinued in 2022 and now serves as a 
forum through which the Chairman , executive 
Board members, and the Vice Chairman interact 
with select Executive Team members with the 
purpose of providing advice and mentoring to 
the Executive Team on topics of strategic 
importance to the firm. Other Board and 
Executive Team members can attend in 
accordance with the nature of the topics at hand 
and the meetings occur on an ad hoc basis, 
typically monthly, and last on average two hours.
Formal meeting attendance
—
The members of the Board are encouraged to 
attend all meetings of the Board and the 
committees on which they serve. The formal 
meetings are also complemented by regular 
informal interactions with management and 
employees across the firm and circular 
resolutions.  In 202 4, aggregate attendance 
levels amounted to 92% and all Board members 
attended 75% or more of the meetings, a 
threshold viewed as best practice by 
shareholders and proxy advisors.
Self-assessment
—
The Board of Directors conducts regular 
feedback sessions in its official Board meetings. 
The Board of Directors conducts an annual self-
evaluation at the end of each year. In this, the 
Board self-assesses its efficiency and 
effectiveness with regard to its statutory duties 
and supervisory tasks. It also considers the 
collaboration between Board members in 
strategic, corporate development-related areas 
as well as the effectiveness of its interaction 
across sub-committees (IOC, COC, and OOC). 
The Board further self-assesses its interaction 
with the Executive Team on the firm's strategic 
pillars and identifies development areas for the 
upcoming year.
3.6. Definition of areas of 
responsibility
The Board of Directors has delegated the day-
to-day management of Partners Group to the 
Executive Team unless provided otherwise by 
law, the articles of association (available at 
www.partnersgroup.com/articlesofassociation ) 
or as described below. The Board of Directors 
has the right to issue specific rules for this 
purpose and to form the respective committees 
to determine the principles of the business 
policy, the risk policy of the various business 
sectors, and the authority and responsibilities of 
each of the company’s bodies. The positions of 
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 15
10 On the condition that a Vice Chairman has been appointed for the current period.

Chairman of the Board of Directors and of the 
Chief Executive Officer are held by separate 
people, thus ensuring a system of internal 
checks and balances and an independence of 
the Board of Directors from the day-to-day 
management of the company.
Apart from the inalienable and non-transferable 
functions mentioned in the law (Art. 716a of the 
Swiss Code of Obligations) and in the articles of 
association (available at 
www.partnersgroup.com/
articlesofassociation ), the Board of Directors 
has a number of additional duties and powers, 
namely resolutions regarding essential features 
of the group’s organization, all transactions in 
connection with real estate (outside of 
investment activities), resolutions regarding the 
acceptance and renewal of loans/credit 
facilities and issuance of guarantees and 
sureties (subject to certain thresholds), 
resolutions regarding the initiation of and 
withdrawal from legal proceedings and 
settlement agreements (subject to certain 
thresholds), the establishment of employment 
conditions and resolutions on employment and 
termination (subject to certain thresholds), all 
activities pertaining to the share register, 
acceptance and handling of audit reports 
(internal audit and external audit) and budgets, 
and the periodic review of the internal 
organization. Responsibilities delegated to the 
Executive Team of Partners Group are set forth 
in the company’s ROO. 
Based on the ROO, the delegated 
responsibilities to the Executive Team are 
generally the following:
1. Direct management as well as continual 
monitoring of business activities within the 
scope of, and in line with, the regulations, 
guidelines, competencies, individual 
resolutions, and restrictions imposed by 
the Board;
2. Conclusion of transactions subject to 
regulations, guidelines, competencies, 
individual resolutions, and restrictions 
imposed by the Board of Directors;
3. Establishing subsidiaries and founding 
new Group companies (branches);
4. Developing and issuing directives, policies 
and job descriptions for employees to the 
extent that such tasks are not reserved for 
the Board of Directors;
5. Employment and termination of 
employees;
6. Initiating legal actions and concluding 
settlements up to CHF million p.a. (CHF 
500'000 per individual case);
7. Organization, management, and 
implementation of accounting, financial 
planning, and reporting, including 
preparation of the company’s 
management report and annual financial 
statements for the attention of the Board 
of Directors;
8. Preparation of the financial plan (budget) 
for approval by the Board;
9. Execution of the Board of Directors’ 
resolutions;
10. Organizing, assisting, and coordinating the 
employment benefit plans;
11. Organizing insurance management;
12. Organizing risk management as well as 
implementing and monitoring the internal 
control system and compliance;
13. Informing the senior management of 
relevant resolutions made by the Board of 
Directors and the Executive Team;
14. Proposals for all transactions that have to 
be submitted to the Board of Directors;
15. Exercising the company’s shareholder 
rights as a shareholder within group 
companies, including the entitlement to 
vote on the composition of the members of 
management, accepting the annual 
financial statements, and matters related 
to this.
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 16

3.7. Information and control 
instruments vis-à-vis the 
senior management
The Board of Directors is kept informed of the 
activities of the Executive Team through a 
number of information and control instruments. 
The Executive Team and respective operating 
officers with line management functions are in a 
regular dialogue with the Chairman of the Board 
regarding the general course of business, the 
financial situation of the company, and any 
developments or events of importance to the 
company and its business. In the event of 
extraordinary incidents or developments, the 
Executive Team notifies the Chairman of the 
Board without delay.
Partners Group's risk governance structure 11
Board of Directors
Risk control & audit
 Investment risk control
Risk & Audit Committee Investment Oversight Committee
Financial Risk Oversight Operational Risk Oversight Regulatory, Legal, and
Conduct Risk Oversight Investment Risk Oversight
Internal and External Audit
Executive Team
CEO & CFO Business Department 
Heads & Specialists1)
CEO, CFO & 
General Counsel
Investment Committees,
Investment Business Department
Heads & Investment Specialists 2)
Financial Risk Management Operational Risk Management Regulatory, Legal and 
Conduct Risk Management Investment Risk Management
Risk assessment and risk reporting by the Chief Risk Officer
The Executive Team submits decisions beyond 
the scope of ordinary management or decisions 
that carry major implications to the relevant 
Board Committee or Board of Directors, 
including (but not limited to) decisions 
specifically reserved for the Chairman, the 
relevant Board Committee, or Board of 
Directors.
3.7.1. Risk governance
Partners Group identifies, assesses, manages, 
and monitors risks on an aggregate basis for 
relevant business activities across the 
organization. Partners Group has put in place a 
risk governance structure comprising the 
following elements and related responsibilities:
3.7.1.1. Board
The Board of Directors of Partners Group 
Holding AG is responsible for stipulating risk 
management and governance principles in line 
with its obligations under applicable laws, as 
further defined in the ROOs.
3.7.1.2. Risk & Audit Committee
The RAC advises and supports the Board in the 
area of audit and risk control, as described in 
further detail in section 3.5 (Internal 
organizational structure) above. The RAC has 
the responsibility to review the risk profile of 
Partners Group and to ensure that appropriate 
processes regarding ongoing risk management 
and audit are in place. It advises and evaluates 
the effectiveness of group-wide financial 
reporting, group-wide internal control systems, 
and general risk monitoring. It maintains 
continuous independent communication with 
the external auditors. 
3.7.1.3. Investment Oversight Committee
The IOC advises and supports the Board on 
investment risk management and the oversight 
of investment and value creation processes 
(including efforts to prevent severe setbacks to 
Partners Group’s track record and reputation, as 
further defined in the ROOs). The IOC’s 
responsibilities are described in further detail in 
section 3.5 (Internal organizational structure) 
above.
3.7.1.4. Crisis Response Team
The Crisis Response Team ('CRT') is a 
governing body of the company responsible for 
ensuring appropriate organization, 
communication, and decision-making during a 
crisis. It consists of the Chairman, the Chairman 
of the RAC, two other members of the Board (as 
determined by the Board), and the members of 
the Executive Team. Upon the request of the 
Chairperson, additional persons with expertise 
and experience in relation to the specific crisis 
can be nominated as ad hoc members with 
voting right (solely Board members) and/or as 
non-voting advisors to the CRT.
3.7.1.5. Group Internal Audit 
Group Internal Audit ('GIA') provides 
independent, risk-based and objective 
assurance, advice and insight, and contributes 
to the continuous improvement of the 
organization. GIA is independent and reports to 
the Chairman of the RAC. GIA works closely with 
the Chairman of the RAC, the Chairman of the 
Board, and the Executive Team. The purpose, 
scope, authorities, responsibilities, tasks, and 
priorities of GIA are regularly discussed with and 
approved by the RAC, and the scope covers the 
entire organization.  
3.7.1.6. Executive Team
The ongoing management of financial, 
operational, regulatory, legal, and conduct risk 
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 17
11 1) Specialists include the Chief Technology Officer, Chief Information Security Officer, etc. 2) Investment Specialists include the Chief Investment Officer, Chairman Global Investment Committee, etc.

as well as investment risk management of 
Partners Group’s activities is delegated to the 
Executive Team of Partners Group Holding 
('Executive Team').
The Executive Team reports periodically on the 
effectiveness of Partners Group’s risk 
management to the RAC.
3.7.1.7. Investment Committees
The ongoing risk management of Partners 
Group’s investment activities is delegated by the 
Executive Team to the Investment Committees 
as further defined in the Investment Policy 
Private Markets.
3.7.1.8. Chief Risk Officer
To support the risk governance bodies set out 
above, the Executive Team appoints the Chief 
Risk Officer ('CRO'). The CRO’s responsibilities 
are as follows:
• Collecting, consolidating, and assessing risk 
information from within the organization to 
enable the Executive Team to steer the 
company to operate within the predefined 
risk tolerances and the RAC to review 
Partners Group’s risk profile;
• Overseeing and steering the execution of 
Partners Group’s risk management process 
by monitoring Partners Group’s risk profile, 
defining, and procuring the implementation 
of adequate systems and methods for risk 
supervision, and adjusting such systems and 
methods to new business lines and products; 
and
• Supervising and reporting on the adequacy 
and effectiveness of Partners Group’s risk 
management setup.
The CRO regularly reports to the Executive 
Team and the RAC. The CRO has a direct 
reporting line to the CEO. The CRO has 
unrestricted access to information, locations, 
and documents within the scope of its function. 
The CRO is supported in his duties by the 
Deputy CRO. The Deputy CRO reports to the 
Executive Team and the RAC on an as-needed 
basis.
3.8. Risk culture
Partners Group has a strong risk culture in line 
with the purpose and values of the firm as 
articulated in the Partners Group Charter. At the 
core of Partners Group’s risk culture are the 
following elements:
• Good judgment:  Partners Group 
encourages staff to think about the wider 
implications and impact when making 
decisions ('connect the dots').
• Compliance culture:  Partners Group 
fosters a culture of compliance to protect its 
reputation as a responsible investment 
manager.
• Speaking up:  Partners Group fosters a 
culture where all staff feel comfortable to 
pro-actively speak up about concerns, even 
if they relate to their own mistakes, and 
highlight things that are believed to be 
wrong, as further set out in the Speak-up 
Directive.
• Ownership and accountability:  Partners 
Group expects its staff to take on ownership 
('own your business') of their business and 
related risks. Individual ownership and 
accountability are reinforced through the 
Three Lines of Defense model.
• Anticipations : Partners Group expects all 
staff to keep abreast of all possible changes 
and emerging risks in their respective areas of 
ownership and evolve processes and 
controls accordingly.
3.9. Risk management 
approach
Partners Group’s risk management approach 
consists of three key elements: a robust risk 
governance framework, a strong and broadly 
embedded risk culture, and a comprehensive 
risk management process based on a risk 
taxonomy tailored to Partners Group’s business 
and risk profile.
3.9.1. Enterprise Risk Taxonomy
In order to ensure adequate coverage of 
relevant risks, Partners Group operates an 
Enterprise Risk Taxonomy ('ERT') which 
represents a hierarchical categorization of 
relevant risks.
The ERT is organized along the four following 
Risk Themes:
• Finance risks:  risks related to our balance 
sheet and income statement (e.g. 
profitability and liquidity).
• Operational risks:  risks related to internal 
processes and operations (e.g. currency 
hedging, models, service providers, 
international marketing, and technology).
• Regulatory, legal, and conduct risks:  risks 
related to non-adherence to regulations, 
laws or internal policies (e.g. market abuse, 
data privacy, and money laundering).
• Investment risks : risks related to our 
investment process and platform (e.g. 
investment due diligence, ESG, portfolio 
management, and semi-liquid products).
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 18

Partners Group Risk Framework
Identification &
Assignment
Measurement &
Assessment Reporting
Risk Themes
Enterprise 
Risk 
Taxonomy
Risk Categories
Risk Areas
Risk / Controls
Culture
In the ERT, as illustrated on the right-hand side 
of the page, overarching Risk Themes are 
decomposed into more specific Risk Categories 
and Risk Areas which facilitate risk management 
at a more granular level. The lowest level of the 
ERT relates to risks and related controls as 
covered by Partners Group's Operational and 
Financial Internal Control System, which is 
described in the Operational Internal Control 
System Directive.
Partners Group’s ERT ensures alignment 
between the Board, the RAC, the Executive 
Team, and individual Risk Category, Risk Area 
and Risk/Control Owners, clear assignment of 
risk ownership and validation functions as well 
as consistency in risk categorization across the 
firm.
Under the lead of the CRO, the ERT is reviewed 
annually to ensure that it remains up to date.
A key aspect of the ERT is the definition of Risk 
Claims articulating the level and type of risks 
Partners Group is willing to take in order to 
achieve its strategic objectives. Risk Claims 
shape the requisite controls and dictate risk 
behaviors. Risk Claims for identified Risk 
Themes are:
• Finance risks:  we support the development 
of our platform and strive for stable revenues 
while keeping a strong but light balance 
sheet able to sustain difficult market 
environments.
• Operational risks:  we achieve operational 
excellence and therefore have low tolerance 
for costly or otherwise consequential 
operational errors and incidents.
• Regulatory, legal, and conduct risks:  we 
protect our reputation as a responsible 
investment manager and therefore have 
zero tolerance for regulatory and legal fines, 
misconduct, and resulting financial losses.
• Investment risks:  we are a recognized 
industry leader in investment management 
and target systemic outperformance for our 
clients while keeping low tolerance for overall 
negative developments in single investment 
programs. 
A second key aspect of the ERT is the clear 
definition of individual ownership and 
accountability.
• Each Risk Category, Risk Area, and 
individual risk is assigned to an individual 
owner who is assigned a pre-defined set of 
duties and responsibilities (see section 
3.9.2).
• In addition to risk ownership, the ERT also 
sets out validation ownership. Risks are 
assessed for their materiality (low, medium, 
high) by considering their likelihood and 
potential impact across various dimensions. 
Typically, risks with high materiality are 
assigned a validation function by the 
Executive Team and/or the Board which is 
assigned a pre-defined set of duties and 
responsibilities (see section 3.9.2).
Partners Group reinforces individual ownership 
and accountability through the Three Lines of 
Defense model to support effective risk 
management. The model defines a clear 
segregation of duties (and related roles and 
responsibilities as further defined in this 
Directive) between risk ownership ('line 1'), risk 
oversight and validation ('line 1b' and 'line 2'), and 
independent assurance ('line 3'). The model 
further requests the different 'lines' to 
collaborate and communicate effectively on an 
ongoing basis.
Enterprise Risk Taxonomy
3.9.2. Roles and responsibilities
Risk Category Owners are typically Executive 
Team members or Focus Group members. 
Responsibilities include:
• Ensuring that Partners Group operates 
within the set Risk Claim for the assigned 
Risk Category;
• Determining the Risk Areas and setting Risk 
Claims;
• Assigning Risk Area Owners; and
• Assessing reports provided by these Risk 
Area Owners and implementing corrective 
measures where required.
Risk Category Owners periodically report on the 
effectiveness of risk management and controls 
to the Executive Team and the Board as part of 
the annual risk report by the CRO. Furthermore, 
Risk Category Owners provide ad hoc reporting 
in case of material breaches of Risk Claims and 
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 19
Board of Directors

irregularities in line with the Quality Assurance 
Directive.
Risk Area Owners  are typically Business Unit 
Heads or Cell Leaders. Responsibilities include:
• Ensuring that Partners Group operates 
within the set Risk Claim for the assigned 
Risk Area;
• Identifying risks and determining risk 
descriptions and Key Risk Indicators;
• Designing, documenting, implementing, and 
assigning processes and controls to mitigate 
these risks following Operational Excellence 
principles;
• Taking corrective measures in case Risk 
Claims are (at risk of) being breached; and
• Staying abreast of internal and external 
changes and other factors based on horizon 
scanning.
Risk Area Owners periodically report on the 
effectiveness of risk management and controls 
to the Risk Category Owner as defined between 
Risk Area Owner and Risk Category Owner. 
Furthermore, Risk Area Owners provide ad hoc 
reporting in case of material breaches of Risk 
Claims and irregularities to the Risk Category 
Owner for further discussion on the course of 
action.
Risk/Control Owners  are typically part of the 
operating/ business teams and are responsible 
for the day-to-day management of risks and 
corresponding controls.
Responsibilities include, as further outlined in 
the Operational Internal Control System 
Directive:
• Operating defined processes and controls 
following Operational Excellence principles 
to ensure identified risks are effectively 
managed;
• Making suggestions on how to increase 
effectiveness of controls;
• Alerting Risk Area Owner of issues, (risk of) 
breaches, and other irregularities; and
• Reporting on effectiveness of risk 
management and controls to Risk Area 
Owners.
Validation Owners  are typically employees in 
Risk Management, Compliance, Corporate 
Legal, and other specialized functions. In select 
cases Validation Owners are part of operating 
business teams with a different reporting line 
('line 1b'). They ensure the effectiveness of risk 
management and controls as operated by Risk 
Owners. Their responsibilities include:
• Testing the effectiveness of processes and 
controls (design and operational 
effectiveness testing), following a risk-based 
approach using measures such as spot 
checks or periodic reviews;
• Assessing quality of corrective measures 
taken in case of breach of Risk Claims; and
• Reviewing if identified gaps and/or areas for 
improvement are implemented.
Validation Owners  typically validate reporting 
issued by Risk Owners. In addition, Validation 
Owners issue ad hoc alerts where they become 
aware of material breaches of Risk Claims and 
irregularities where these are not reported and 
addressed by the respective Risk Owner.
3.9.3. Identification and designation
The identification of risks and the assessment of 
their impact is an ongoing process to ensure all 
material risks are known, well understood, 
clearly assigned, and pro-actively managed 
based on defined standards. The identification 
of risks is assigned to the respective Risk 
Category Owner and Risk Area Owner, 
respectively, as further discussed above.
Upon the identification of a risk, the respective 
Risk Category Owner assigns ownership and 
approves the related Risk Claim.
3.9.4. Risk measurement and 
management
Risk measurement and management is the 
ongoing process involving both the respective 
Risk Owner and Validation Owner, where 
available, to ensure risks are monitored against 
defined Key Risk Indicators and managed in 
accordance with defined Risk Claims.
Where necessary, corrective measures (and 
escalation) are pro-actively taken in a timely 
manner under the lead of the respective Risk 
Owner.
3.9.5. Stress testing
To help assess business resilience, financial, or 
other consequential impact and the adequacy of 
the risk management practice, stress testing is 
periodically conducted. Key tools include:
• Scenario analysis:  Risk Owners assess if 
defined Risk Claims withstand external 
shocks, such as global economic downturns, 
or power outages and cyber attacks.
• Fire drills:  Test of the effectiveness of 
decision-making, operations, and controls 
across various Risk Areas in the context of a 
specific mock threat.
The CRO is responsible for coordinating stress 
testing. The Executive Team reviews the result 
and mandates corrective measures as and 
where appropriate. The RAC is informed on the 
conclusions of stress testing activities and 
corrective measures taken.
3.9.6. Risk reporting
Risk reporting enables the Risk Owners, the 
Executive Team, the RAC, and the Board to 
make informed decisions, as appropriate, by 
providing insightful analysis on the effectiveness 
of risk management and related controls based 
on accurate and timely data.
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 20

Risk data aggregation and reporting are defined, 
mandated, and overseen by the CRO with the 
support of the respective Risk Owners. In areas 
where validation functions have been defined, 
these are expected to review the accuracy of 
the respective reporting, as appropriate.
On an annual basis, the CRO provides the 
Executive Team and the Board with an annual 
risk report discussing – inter alia – the key risk 
management activities of the respective 
calendar year, a risk assessment based on the 
ERT (specifically indicating where defined Risk 
Claims were not adhered to and corrective 
measures taken/planned to be taken), the result 
of stress testing, and an outlook on emerging 
risks and related activities (horizon scanning).
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 21
Partners Group campus | Denver, USA


4. Executive Team
The table below shows the composition of the Executive Team and the roles of the Executive Team members as of 31 December 2024 (unless indicated differently):
David Layton 2005 American 1981 Chief Executive Officer
Sarah Brewer 2008 British 1983 Clients Co-Head Client Solutions
Roberto Cagnati 2004 Swiss/Italian 1978 Clients Chief Risk Officer, Head Portfolio Solutions
Joris Gröflin 2024 Swiss/Dutch 1977 Finance Chief Financial Officer
Juri Jenkner 2004 German 1975 Investments President
Andreas Knecht 2009 Swiss 1969 Operations Chief Operating Officer, Group General Counsel, and Head Compliance, Legal & Tax
Michael Marquardt 2024 American 1970 Head Business Services12
Esther Peiner 2015 German 1980 Head Private Infrastructure
Wolf-Henning Scheider 2023 German 1962 Investments Head Private Equity
Name Joined Partners
Group in Nationality Birth year Pillar 
(Co)-Leadership Title/Position
4.1. Members of the Executive Team
As also outlined in section 3.6 (Definition of areas of responsibility) above, the Board of Directors has delegated the operational management of the company to the extent as permissible by law and the articles of 
association (available at www.partnersgroup.com/articlesofassociation ) to the Executive Team. The Executive Team manages day-to-day investment and client activities as well as the firm-wide and cross-
departmental aspects, such as human resources, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, and salary steering.
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 22
12 See page 181 for further details.

Professional background and 
education of each member of 
the Executive Team, including 
other activities and functions13
David Layton
Partner, Chief Executive Officer
David Layton is the Chief Executive Officer of Partners 
Group, based in the firm’s Americas headquarters in 
Denver, Colorado. He leads the Executive Team, the 
Global Executive Board, and is a member of the Global 
Investment Committee and Private Markets Relative 
Value Committee. David principally divides his time 
between Partners Group's Americas headquarters in 
Colorado, USA, and Partners Group's global 
headquarters in Zug, Switzerland. He was previously 
the Head of Partners Group’s Private Equity business 
department and has represented the firm on the Board 
of Directors of several of the firm’s portfolio 
companies, including Nobel Learning Communities, 
MicroPoise Measurement Systems, Cabot Credit 
Management, and Pacific Bells. David has been with 
Partners Group since 2005 and holds a Bachelor’s 
degree in Finance from Brigham Young University's 
Marriott School of Management, USA.
Sarah Brewer
Partner, Co-Head Client Solutions
Sarah Brewer is Co-Head of the Client Solutions 
business department, based in London. She co-leads 
Partners Group's Clients Pillar and is a member of the 
Executive Team and the Global Executive Board. She 
has been with Partners Group since 2008. Prior to 
joining Partners Group, she worked at Bloomberg LP. 
She holds a Bachelor's degree in Philosophy, Politics, 
and Economics from the University of Oxford, UK.
Roberto Cagnati
Partner, Chief Risk Officer, Head Portfolio Solutions
Roberto Cagnati is Partners Group’s Chief Risk Officer 
and Head of the Portfolio Solutions business 
department, based in Zug. He co-leads the firm's 
Clients Pillar and is a member of the Executive Team, 
the Global Executive Board as well as the Global 
Portfolio Committee. He has been with Partners Group 
since 2004. Prior to joining Partners Group, he worked 
at Deutsche Bank Asset Management and Credit 
Suisse Private Banking in the alternative investment 
space. He holds a Master’s degree in Economics with a 
specialization in Statistics and Financial Markets from 
the University of Konstanz, Germany.
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 23
13 All titles are reflective of the Executive Team members’ roles and titles as of 31 December 2024.

Joris Gröflin
Partner, Chief Financial Officer
Joris Gröflin is Partners Group's Chief Financial 
Officer, based in Zug. He leads the Finance 
department and is a member of the Executive Team 
and the Global Executive Board. He has been with 
Partners Group since 2024 and has over 20 years of 
industry experience. Prior to joining Partners Group, he 
was Chief Financial Officer and Member of the 
Executive Board at Axpo Holding AG (2019-2023). He 
also worked in various roles at Rieter Holding AG 
(2006-2011), including as Chief Financial Officer and 
Member of the Group Executive Committee 
(2011-2019), and held positions at Kearney 
(2001-2006). He holds a licentiate and a CEMS 
Master's degree in Business Administration from the 
University of St. Gallen (2001) .
Juri Jenkner
Partner, President
Juri Jenkner is the President of Partners Group, based 
in Zug. He co-leads Partners Group's Investments 
Pillar and is a member of the Executive Team and the 
Global Executive Board. He is also a member of the 
Global Investment Committee. Prior to becoming 
President in 2024, he served as the Head of the Private 
Infrastructure Business Department and previously as 
Co-Head of the Private Debt Business Department. He 
has been with Partners Group since 2004. Prior to 
joining Partners Group, he worked at Privatbankiers 
Merck Finck & Co. He holds a Master's degree in 
Finance from the Lorange Institute of Business, 
Switzerland. He is also a Certified European financial 
analyst.
• Other mandates: Member of the Board of Directors 
of the Swiss-American Chamber of Commerce
Andreas Knecht
Partner, Chief Operating Officer, Group General 
Counsel, and Head Compliance, Legal & Tax
Andreas Knecht is the Chief Operating Officer and 
General Counsel of Partners Group, based in Zug. He 
leads the firm's Operations Pillar, is Head of the 
Compliance, Legal & Tax business department, and is a 
member of the Executive Team and the Global 
Executive Board. He has been with Partners Group 
since 2009. Prior to joining Partners Group, he worked 
as an attorney at a number of different law firms, 
including Niederer Kraft & Frey, advising corporate 
clients in M&A and financing matters, and as co-lead at 
Man Group's Continental Europe legal team. He holds 
a Master’s degree in Law from the University of Zurich, 
Switzerland and an LLM from New York University, 
USA. He is admitted to the Swiss bar.
Michael Marquardt
Partner, Head Business Services
Michael Marquardt is the Head of the Business 
Services business department, based in Singapore. He 
is a member of the Executive Team and leads the 
Operations Pillar starting from 1 January 2025. He has 
30 years of industry experience with large financial 
services companies including IQ-EQ, from 2021 to 
2024 where he was the Asia Regional CEO, and 
BlackRock (2000-2017) where his final role was the 
Asia-Pacific Chief Operating Officer (inclusive of his 
time at Barclays Global Investors which was acquired 
by BlackRock in 2009). He holds an MBA from Boston 
University, Massachusetts, USA, and a Bachelor's 
degree in economics from Clark University, 
Massachusetts, USA.
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 24

Esther Peiner
Partner, Head Private Infrastructure
Esther Peiner is the Head of the Private Infrastructure 
business department, based in Zug. She is a member of 
the Executive Team and Global Executive Board as 
well as a member of the Private Infrastructure 
Investment Committee. Esther is also a sponsor of the 
Women's Network. Furthermore, she is a member of 
the Board of Directors of the firm's portfolio companies 
EOLO, atNorth, Lifelink, and CapeOmega. In addition, 
she was responsible for the execution of the control 
investments in German renewable developer VSB 
(2020), UK/Irish interconnector developer Greenlink 
(2019), Norwegian Gas Transportation Company 
CapeOmega (2019), and German offshore wind farm 
developer Merkur ( 2016). She has over 20 years of 
industry experience. Prior to joining Partners Group, 
she gained experience in investment banking with 
Macquarie Capital (2003-2012) and Macquarie 
Infrastructure and Real Assets (2012-2014). She holds 
a Master's degree in finance and marketing from 
Maastricht University, Netherlands.
Wolf-Henning Scheider
Partner, Head Private Equity
Wolf-Henning Scheider is Head of the Private Equity 
business department, based in Zug. He is the Head of 
the Private Equity Technology business unit and is a 
member of the Executive Team as well as the Global 
Executive Board. Prior to joining Partners Group, he 
worked at ZF Group from 2018 to 2023, a global 
technology company, as the Chairman of the Board of 
Management and CEO, and was also responsible for 
Research & Development and Sales. He also worked at 
MAHLE Group from 2015 to 2018 where he served as 
Chairman of the Management Board and CEO, as well 
as at Robert Bosch GmbH, where he held various roles, 
such as the CEO of the Car Multimedia Division and the 
Gasoline Systems Divisions. Afterwards, he was 
appointed as Member of the Board of Management 
and later on took over the overall responsibility for the 
activities of the Automotive Group. He holds degrees in 
Business Administration from Saarland University, 
Germany and RWTH Aachen University, Germany.
• External mandates (audited): Member of the 
Supervisory Board of Michelin Group
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 25

Organizational changes to senior 
management
—
Partners Group reviews its organizational 
structure on an ongoing basis and implements 
adjustments whenever necessary to support 
and enable the continued successful growth of 
its investment platform for the benefit of the 
firm’s clients and shareholders, while ensuring 
continuity and stability in its core leadership 
team.
As of 1 January 2024, Juri Jenkner, Partner, took 
on the newly created role of President of 
Partners Group and Esther Peiner, Partner, 
became Head of Private Infrastructure, and 
joined the Executive Team, based in Zug. Lastly, 
Joris Gröflin joined the firm as Partner and Chief 
Financial Officer as well as member of the 
Executive Team. .
As of 31 January 2024, Kirsta Anderson, Partner 
and Chief People Officer, transitioned into an 
Advisory Partner function and rotated out of the 
Executive Team.
As of 12 July 2024, Partners Group has 
appointed Michael Marquardt, Partner and Head 
Business Services, to the firm's Executive Team 
with immediate effect. Michael joined Partners 
Group from IQ-EQ, where he served as Regional 
CEO for Asia.
As of 1 January 2025, Michael Marquardt 
became Chief Operation Officer of Partners 
Group Holding AG, taking over from Andreas 
Knecht. Andreas Knecht retained his role as 
Group General Counsel, and both will remain on 
the Executive Team. Furthermore, Sarah 
Brewer became the sole head of the Client 
Solutions business department.
4.2. Other activities and 
vested interests
Other activities outside of Partners Group, if any, 
of members of the Executive Team are listed in 
section 4.1 (Members of the Executive Team) for 
each respective member. None of the members 
of the Executive Team hold permanent 
management or consultancy functions for 
important Swiss or foreign interest groups, and 
none of the members have official functions or 
hold political posts. None of the members of the 
Executive Team have carried out tasks for 
Partners Group prior to joining the firm.
4.3. Number of mandates 
pursuant to the Swiss Code of 
Obligations 
In accordance with Art. 626 para. 2 item 1 of the 
Swiss Code of Obligations and Art. 29 of the 
articles of association (available at 
www.partnersgroup.com/
articlesofassociation ), each member of the 
Executive Team may assume a maximum of five 
additional mandates in companies that pursue 
an economic purpose, which includes a 
maximum of three additional mandates in listed 
companies. For the definition of the term 
'mandates' and for mandates exempt from this 
limitation, see section 3.3 (Number of permitted 
activities) above.
4.4. Management contracts
Partners Group has not entered into any 
management contracts with third parties for the 
exercise of executive management functions.
4.5. Global Executive Board
The Executive Team is supported by a global 
leadership team comprising Senior Member of 
Management, Member of Management as well 
as senior managerial employees of different 
departments/units and regions across the firm’s 
offices globally.
Internally referred to as Global Executive Board, 
the team works closely with the firm’s Executive 
Team on a consulting basis without decision 
authority. Executive Team members are also 
members of the extended Global Executive 
Board.
5. Compensation, 
shareholdings, and loans
5.1. Principles, content, and 
method of determining the 
compensation
Pursuant to Art. 734 and 734b of the Swiss Code 
of Obligations, all compensation paid in 2024 to 
the members of the Board of Directors and the 
Executive Team, and the outstanding loans, if 
any, granted to the members of the Board of 
Directors and the Executive Team, are disclosed 
in the Compensation Report. In the 
Compensation Report, the firm outlines its 
compensation principles, components, and 
method. The Compensation Report can be 
found in the Annual Report 2024 or on the firm’s 
website available at: www.partnersgroup.com/
financialreports .
The shareholders individually approve, each 
year at the Annual General Meeting, the motions 
of the Board of Directors with regard to: (i) the 
maximum total short-term compensation for the 
Board of Directors for the period until the next 
ordinary annual shareholders’ meeting; (ii) the 
maximum total long-term compensation for the 
Board of Directors for the preceding term of 
office; (iii) the maximum total Technical Non-
Financial Income for the Board of Directors for 
the preceding term of office; (iv) the maximum 
total short-term compensation for the Executive 
Team for the following fiscal year; (v) the 
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 26

maximum total long-term compensation for the 
Executive Team for the preceding fiscal year, 
and (vi) the maximum total Technical Non-
Financial Income for the Executive Team for the 
preceding fiscal year.
For further details on the compensation 
approval, general compensation principles, and 
the form of compensation please refer to 
Articles 35-37 of the articles of association 
(available at www.partnersgroup.com/
articlesofassociation ), as well as the 
Compensation Report.
5.2. Loans
Members of the Board of Directors and 
Executive Team may apply for loans and fixed 
advances, subject to an internal review and 
approval process. Such loans are made on 
substantially the same terms as those granted to 
other employees, including interest rates and 
collateral.
Pursuant to Art. 735c of the Swiss Code of 
Obligations, the principal amount of loans and 
credits for members of the Board of Directors 
and the executive management must be fixed in 
the articles of association in order to allow the 
company to grant such loans and credits to 
members of the Board of Directors and the 
Executive Team. Art. 27 and Art. 31 of Partners 
Group’s articles of association (available at 
www.partnersgroup.com/articlesofassociation ) 
state that the members of the Board of Directors 
and Executive Team may be granted loans, 
credits, and provided collateral up to certain 
limits at arm’s length conditions.
There were no loans outstanding as of 31 
December 2024  for the Board of Directors and 
the Executive Team (refer to sections 2.7 and 
3.5 in the Compensation Report).
6. Shareholders’ 
participation
6.1. Voting rights and 
representation measures 
With the exception of the treasury shares held 
by the company, each share entitles the 
shareholder to one vote. The shareholders who 
are entitled to attend shareholders’ meetings 
and to exercise voting rights are those recorded 
with voting rights in the share register as of a 
qualifying date prior to the shareholders’ 
meeting set by the Board of Directors.
Registration in the share register with the 
attached voting rights is restricted by the limits 
on transferability and nominee registration as 
set forth in section 2.6 (Limitation on 
transferability, and nominee registration). All 
registered shareholders are invited to attend 
shareholders’ meetings. If they do not wish to 
attend, shareholders may be represented at the 
shareholders’ meeting either (i) by a legal 
representative who needs not be a shareholder 
or (ii) by an independent proxy. The Board of 
Directors issues further rules in relation to 
attendance and representation at shareholders’ 
meetings, including the electronic issuance of 
proxies and instructions to the independent 
proxy.
6.2. Quorums
The following resolutions of the shareholders’ 
meeting require at least two-thirds of the 
represented votes and the absolute majority of 
the represented nominal share value (see Art. 18 
of the articles of association, available at 
www.partnersgroup.com/
articlesofassociation ):
• the cases listed in Art. 704 para. 1 of the 
Swiss Code of Obligations, and
• the reversal or amendment of the transfer 
restrictions (see section 2.6 for details in 
relation to such restrictions).
In addition, the law provides for a qualified 
majority for other resolutions, such as a merger 
or demerger. 
6.3. Convocation of the 
general meeting of 
shareholders
The Annual General Meeting takes place within 
six months of the close of the financial year. 
Shareholders receive an invitation to each 
general meeting of shareholders (Annual 
General Meeting and extraordinary general 
meeting, if any) including detailed descriptions 
of the items to be discussed and the motions of 
the Board of Directors no later than 20 days 
before the date of the respective general 
meeting. In 2025, the annual general meeting of 
shareholders is scheduled for 21 May.
For further details on the process for the 
convocation of general meetings (which does 
defer from the statutory rules) please refer to 
Art. 13 and 14 of the articles of association 
available at www.partnersgroup.com/
articlesofassociation ).
The shareholders' meeting is called by the 
Board of Directors or, where required, by the 
auditors, the liquidators, or the representative 
bondholders. Shareholders representing at 
least 5% of the share capital or the votes may at 
any time request that a shareholders’ meeting 
be called. The request must be submitted in 
writing at least 45 days ahead of the meeting by 
stating the items on the agenda and the motions 
to be introduced by the shareholders.
6.4. Inclusion of items on 
the agenda
Shareholders representing at least 0.5% of the 
share capital or the votes may request that an 
item or the inclusion of motions relating to items 
be placed on the agenda at a shareholders’ 
meeting, provided such request is received by 
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 27

the Board of Directors in writing no later than 45 
days prior to the meeting by stating the items on 
the agenda and the motions to be introduced by 
the shareholders. Shareholders may submit a 
brief statement of reasons together with the 
request for the inclusion of an item on the 
agenda or the motion. These must be included in 
the notice of the shareholders' meeting.
6.5. Entries in the share 
register
The general rules for registration as a 
shareholder apply as described in sections 2.4 
(Shares and participation certificates) and 2.6 
(Limitation on transferability, and nominee 
registration). The qualifying date for the 
registration of shares is defined by the Board of 
Directors for every shareholders' meeting.
7. Changes of control and 
defense measures
7.1. Opting out
Partners Group has elected to opt out of the rule 
that an investor acquiring 33 1/3 % of all voting 
rights has to submit a public offer for all 
outstanding shares (so called opting out).
7.2. Clauses on change of 
control
The contracts with the members of the Board of 
Directors and the Executive Team do not 
contain any change of control clauses.
In particular, no protection measures, such as
• severance payments in the event of a 
takeover ('golden parachutes');
• special provisions on the cancellation of 
contractual arrangements;
• agreements concerning special notice 
periods or longer-term contracts where they 
exceed 12 months (in line with the Swiss 
Code of Obligations);
• the waiver of lock-up periods (e.g. no options 
that can be exercised with immediate effect);
• shorter vesting periods/accelerated vesting; 
and/or
• additional contributions to pension funds
exist that protect the above-mentioned persons 
by certain contractual conditions against the 
consequences of takeovers.
8. Auditors
8.1. Duration of mandate and 
term of office
The consolidated financial statements and the 
statutory accounts of Partners Group Holding 
AG are audited by KPMG AG. The statutory and 
group auditors are elected for a one-year period 
at the annual general meeting of shareholders 
and were re-elected at the Annual General 
Meeting 2024. KPMG AG was first elected 
statutory and group auditor on 21 November 
2001. Due to the completion of the applicable 
seven-year rotation interval, the former lead 
auditor, Thomas Dorst, has been replaced by 
Philipp Rickert, who is the new lead auditor since 
the Annual General Meeting 2024. He will 
remain in this position until the Annual General 
Meeting 2025, where the Company proposes its 
shareholders to elect PricewaterhouseCoopers 
('PwC') as new statutory auditors .
8.2. Auditing fees
In the financial year 2024, KPMG AG and other 
KPMG companies received a total of CHF 2.2 
million ( 2023: CHF 2.3 million) for audit services.
8.3. Additional fees
In addition, KPMG AG and other KPMG 
companies received CHF 0.2 million ( 2023: CHF 
0.1 million) in fees for consulting services (tax, 
regulatory, and International Financial Reporting 
Standards) rendered to Partners Group and its 
subsidiaries in the financial year 2024.
8.4. Oversight of the external 
auditors
The Board of Directors is responsible for the 
acceptance and processing of the reports from 
the statutory and group auditors. In doing so, the 
Board of Directors is supported by the Risk & 
Audit Committee, which periodically interacts 
with and monitors the qualification, 
independence, and performance of the external 
auditors.
Based on the constant dialogue with KPMG AG 
and its annual presentation to the Board of 
Directors evaluating all audit findings, the Risk & 
Audit Committee conducts its assessment. This 
assessment further includes oral and written 
statements made by KPMG AG throughout the 
year concerning individual aspects or factual 
issues in connection with accounting matters 
and the audit. During the 2024 financial year, the 
external auditors (KPMG) participated in all five 
meetings of the Risk & Audit Committee in order 
to discuss audit processes as well as regulatory 
guidelines and monitoring. Further, the incoming 
external auditors (PwC) – that will take over the 
auditor mandate next year, subject to election at 
the 2025 Annual General Meeting – also 
participated in three meetings of the Risk & Audit 
Committee . Among others, the external auditors 
were also involved in evaluating findings on risk 
factors and processes. 
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 28

Key factors in assigning the external audit 
mandate to KPMG AG were:
• Detailed audit budget proposal containing 
expected hours and the relevant hourly rate;
• Comprehensive debriefing after completion 
of audit, during which suggestions for 
improvement are discussed from both sides;
• Quality of service provided;
• International expertise in regard to audit and 
accounting;
• Independence and reputation of the audit 
firm;
• Industry knowledge and qualifications;
• Competitive fees.
The Risk & Audit Committee reviews and 
assesses the auditor’s performance on an 
annual basis. The Risk & Audit Committee also 
verifies that any additional services of the 
auditors not relating to the audit services are 
provided within the independence requirements 
pursuant to Swiss law. The reports and 
presentations made by external auditors, the 
discussions in the meetings, and the expertise 
form the basis for the assessment of the 
external auditors' performance and the fees 
paid for the audit services provided. In this 
context and in the spirit of upholding good 
corporate governance, Partners Group 
periodically conducts appraisals of the audit 
mandate, in which budget issues, in particular, 
are reviewed to ensure audit fees are kept at a 
competitive level in the best interests of 
shareholders.
Please also refer to section 3.5 (Internal 
organizational structure) concerning the Risk & 
Audit Committee.
8.5. Proposal for a new auditor 
starting in 2025
In 2022, Partners Group launched a Request for 
Proposal process to select a new auditor for the 
firm which concluded at the end of 2023. The 
Risk & Audit Committee has been actively 
engaged throughout the process, and has run a 
competitive, transparent, and fair tender 
process to select the new auditor. The Board 
and Risk & Audit Committee have decided to 
propose PricewaterhouseCoopers AG to the 
shareholders at the 2025 Annual General 
Meeting for voting and ratification. The new 
auditor will be the responsible auditor starting 
with the fiscal year 2025. 
9. Information policy
As a company with its shares listed on the SIX 
Swiss Exchange AG, Partners Group is 
committed to pursuing an open, transparent, 
and consistent communication strategy vis-à-vis 
its shareholders as well as the financial 
community.
Partners Group’s Interim and Annual Reports 
are available for download on the website at 
www.partnersgroup.com/financialreports .
Key dates for 202 5 are as follow s:
Announcement of AuM as of 31 December 2024 14 January 2025
Publication of Financial Results as of 31 December 2025 11 March 2025
Capital Markets Day 2025 12 March 2025
Annual General Meeting of shareholders 21 May 2025
Ex-dividend date 23 May 2025
Dividend record date 26 May 2025
Dividend payment date 27 May 2025
Announcement of AuM as of 30 June 2025 15 July 2025
Publication of Interim Financial Results & Report as of 30 June 2025 2 September 2025
Event Date
The company's publication gazette is the Swiss 
Official Gazette of Commerce ( Schweizerisches 
Handelsamtblatt ). The Board of Directors may 
designate additional publications. Convocation 
of shareholders' meetings and notifications to 
shareholders may additionally or instead thereof 
be made in writing by letter or by email to the 
addresses recorded in the share register. 
Partners Group also distributes all current news 
via regular press releases and price-sensitive 
information via ad hoc announcements. All 
published press releases and ad hoc 
announcements are available on the website at 
www.partnersgroup.com/pressreleases .
To receive all information automatically upon 
publication via email, shareholders and other 
interested parties may subscribe to press 
releases and ad hoc announcements at 
www.partnersgroup.com/subscribe .
Partners Group’s Compensation Report 
outlining the 202 4 compensation for the Board 
of Directors and Executive Team can be found 
on the Partners Group website at 
www.partnersgroup.com/financialreports  or in 
the 2024 Annual Report.
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 29

For all investor inquiries, Philip Sauer can be 
reached as follows:
Philip Sauer
Unternehmer Park 3
6340 Baar-Zug
Switzerland
T: +41 41 784 66 60
Email: shareholders@partnersgroup.com  
Headquarters:
Unternehmer-Park 3
6340 Baar-Zug Switzerland
www.partnersgroup.com
10. Quiet periods
In line with Partners Group’s Personal Account 
Dealing Directive (issued by the Executive 
Team), Partners Group imposes upon its 
employees market conduct rules related to 
personal securities transactions: e.g. disclosure 
and trading restriction requirements. These 
rules are designed to protect Partners Group 
and its employees.
Partners Group employees may transact in 
'PGH Securities' defined as: Partners Group 
Holding AG listed shares ('PGHN') and 
derivatives which are valued based on the price 
of PGHN and listed debt instruments issued by 
Partners Group Holding AG or any of its 
subsidiaries.
Partners Group employees are permitted to 
transact during two order windows per calendar 
year (each an 'Order Window') following the 
public announcement of Partners Group Holding 
AG financial results.
In addition, independent Board members of 
Partners Group Holding AG are only allowed to 
transact in PGH Securities during the same two 
Order Windows.
Order Windows take place after annual financial 
results and interim financial results are 
communicated on the following dates for 2025:
Annual financial results 13 March - 25 May
Interim financial results 3 September - 18 
November
Public announcement Order Window
While all orders must be placed within an Order 
Window, the term of an order can run beyond, i.e. 
execution of the order can take place after the 
end of the Order Window. After an Order 
Window closes, no adjustments to orders are 
permitted, including terminating the order.
During the reporting year 2024, all decisions 
made by Partners Group employees in regard to 
PGH Securities were made within the 
prescribed Order Windows or in line with the 
exception process per the Personal Account 
Dealing Directive.
The Chairman or the Vice Chairman of the Board 
together with the General Counsel or his deputy 
have the authority to amend or terminate an 
Order Window.
If Partners Group’s employees are in the 
possession of price-sensitive, non-public 
information in respect to PGH Securities due to 
the work they perform, they will be added to an 
insider list, prohibiting them from trading in PGH 
Securities.
11. Non-applicability/
negative disclosure
It is expressly noted that any information not 
contained or mentioned herein is non-applicable 
or its omission is to be construed as a negative 
declaration (as provided for in the SIX Exchange 
Regulation Corporate Governance Directive 
and the Commentary thereto ).
Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2024 30
Partners Group campus | Baar-Zug, Switzerland