Source ID: PS-VD-912
Firm: Industry-wide (Mercer)
Title: The State of Alternative Investments in Wealth Management 2025
Document Type: industry_report
Bias Tag: industry-report
Seed URL: https://www.mercer.com/en-us/insights/investments/financial-intermediaries/the-state-of-alternative-investments-in-wealth-management-2025/
Loaded URL: https://www.mercer.com/en-us/insights/investments/market-outlook-and-trends/top-considerations-for-financial-intermediaries/
Top considerations for financial intermediaries in 2023

A sharp rise in macroeconomic volatility ended a decade of strong performance for 60/40 portfolios.

Now, investors must face the linked challenges of high inflation, rising yields and market volatility. To put this in perspective, inflation across all 38 members of the OECD between 2010 and 2020 (before the pandemic) ranged between 0% and 3% 1 . Now it is running at over 10%. This, combined with synchronized interest rate hikes (put in place by major central banks in response to inflation), risks triggering a global recession. Ironically, whether this economic contraction is mild or deep depends, at least in part, on the unpredictable path of inflation and further central bank responses.

In this report, we discuss regional monetary policy dispersion and look at how advisors and their clients can ensure portfolios are diversified both across and within asset classes, as well as by geography, sectors, factors, investment styles and non-traditional market betas. This diversification is vital as it will allow preparations to be made for a period of higher-for-longer interest rates, and an uncertain growth outlook.

Six areas of consideration for financial intermediaries

1. Navigating recession risk Global recession risk increases as central banks hike rates

2. Capturing themes in private markets Capture innovative strategies and sustainable opportunities

3. A hedge fund renaissance Rediscover hedge funds in a low-return world

4. Adopting a pragmatic approach to net zero ESG integration and engagement rather than outright exclusion

4. Adopting a pragmatic approach to net zero

5. Proliferation of alternative products Raising awareness of wealth management product development

5. Proliferation of alternative products

6. Portfolio transparency and data “operational alpha” Better portfolio visibility and transparency on ESG issues

6. Portfolio transparency and data “operational alpha”

Global Wealth Management Investment Survey findings

59% of respondents believe the biggest investment opportunity over the next three years is in diversifying portfolios away from traditional equities and bonds.

73% of respondents are either currently invested or are considering to invest in illiquid assets over the next 12 months.

82% of respondents said that client demand for ESG products has increased over the past 12 months. The main driver for this demand was societal sentiment.

Implementation and OCIO We can help you define, develop and implement your investment strategy by addressing areas such as governance, risk, sustainability and diversification. We flex our services to suit your needs and help you achieve your investment goals. Link to OCIO page

Sustainable investing We build or optimize our clients’ sustainable investment strategy to help them meet their investment objectives. Our research, tools, advice and solutions are designed to help mitigate risks to portfolios while seeking to capture investment opportunities associated with sustainability. Link to sustainable investment page

Alternative investments Leveraging our existing relationships with hundreds of asset managers around the world, we can help you identify and source new investment strategies, opportunities, ideas and innovations across private markets and hedge funds. Link to alternatives and private markets page

Strategic research Become a member of the MercerInsight ® Community today to get access to strategic research from hundreds of thought leaders around the world, including Mercer and third-party publishers. It’s complimentary and easy to join. Link to strategic research page

Asset manager research By subscribing to MercerInsight ® , an alliance with eVestment, you can gain access to data, analytics and our forward-looking research on asset managers and thousands of investment strategies across both public and private markets. Link to asset manager research page

Managing investment risk Our Mercer Sentinel team can help you conduct due diligence and mitigate operational risks across your portfolios and strategies. We assess asset managers, custodians and other service providers to help you deliver on your governance objectives. Link to Mercer Sentinel page

New beginnings Learn more about the top six considerations for wealth managers and financial intermediaries in 2023. Download this report