Source ID: PS-VD-913
Firm: Industry-wide (Cerulli)
Title: Private Markets Investments Provide Advisors with Practice Differentiation, High Net Worth Client Asset Gathering and Retention Opportunities
Document Type: industry_report
Bias Tag: industry-report
Seed URL: https://www.cerulli.com/press-releases/private-markets-investments-provide-advisors-with-practice-differentiation-high-net-worth-client-asset-gathering-and-retention-opportunities
Loaded URL: https://www.invesco.com/us/en/insights/private-market-trends.html?utm_campaign=cerulli_whitepaper_press_release&utm_source=Outlook&utm_medium=email&utm_content=wmiusa-email-owned-text-oft092023
New research from Cerulli Associates reveals that offering alternative investments such as private markets exposure can help advisors attract and retain high-net-worth clients

Alternative investments can help advisors achieve various client outcomes — opportunity for enhanced return, greater income potential, diversification ¹ — while simultaneously enhancing their overall business profiles. Both low users and high users plan to increase their alternative allocations by 2025, and many respondents see particular opportunity in private equity and private credit.

Cerulli surveyed more than 200 upmarket advisors representing registered investment advisers (RIAs), wirehouses, independent broker-dealers, national/regional broker-dealers, private banks/bank trusts, retail banks, and insurance broker-dealers. On average, survey respondents had:

These advisors have a higher AUM than the typical advisor and work with a wide range of client.

These advisors’ wealthy clients make them an ideal prospect for private market opportunities.

54% Have an alts allocation of 5% or greater

Given their sophistication, advisors were more likely to have meaningful alternatives allocations.

Elevate your client interactions with the support of our time-tested client-management strategies, insights, research, and resources.

1 Diversification does not guarantee a profit or eliminate the risk of loss.

Diversification does not guarantee a profit or eliminate the risk of loss.

2 There is no guarantee that addition of alternatives will result in increased business for any financial professional.

There is no guarantee that addition of alternatives will result in increased business for any financial professional.

Thank you for your submission. Read the Cerulli Insights whitepape r.

There was a problem with your submission. Please review your responses and try again.

This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

When you interact with us, we may collect information about you which constitutes personal data under applicable laws and regulations. Our privacy notice explains how we use and protect your personal data.

Skip to main content

New research from Cerulli Associates reveals that offering alternative investments such as private markets exposure can help advisors attract and retain high-net-worth clients Download research

Optimize your portfolios Read related article

Enhance your business Read related article

Connect with your clients Read related article

Practice Management Center Elevate your client interactions with the support of our time-tested client-management strategies, insights, research, and resources.

This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. When you interact with us, we may collect information about you which constitutes personal data under applicable laws and regulations. Our privacy notice explains how we use and protect your personal data.