Source ID: PS-VD-041
Firm: Brookfield Corporation
Title: Brookfield Corporation Q4 2025 Letter to Shareholders
Document Type: shareholder_letter
Bias Tag: company-produced
Seed URL: https://bn.brookfield.com/sites/brookfield-bn-v2/files/BN-IR-Master/Letter-to-Shareholders/2026/Q4-25%20BN%20Letter%20to%20Shareholders_vF.pdf
Loaded URL: https://bn.brookfield.com/sites/brookfield-bn-v2/files/BN-IR-Master/Letter-to-Shareholders/2026/Q4-25%20BN%20Letter%20to%20Shareholders_vF.pdf
   
Q4 2025 Letter to Shareholders 1 
Q4 2025 
Brookfield Corporation 2025 Letter to Shareholders 
Overview 
Overall results and business fundamentals were strong in 2025. Stock markets were volatile, but equities ended 
the year up, as did bonds, gold, and commodities. For those who stayed the course, it was a great year.  
We had a record year with $112 billion of fundraising, $91 billion of assets sold, and approximately $175 billion of 
assets financed. This enabled us to acquire $126 billion of new investments. In the stock market , our shares 
generated a 21% return. This narrowed some of the gap between Price and Value. 
The Business Environment is Much Better than it Seems 
Economic fundamentals are good, and while everyone seems to feel uneasy, that appears to be the new normal. 
Overall equity market valuations are high in some areas of the market . But remember, twenty years from now , 
today’s valuations will look ridiculously low for great companies. 
With slowing economies and a U.S. government focused on pushing rates lower, interest rates have been coming 
down globally and it looks as though they will continue to do so. Lower rates will do wonders for the U.S. economy, 
propelling housing and consumer confidence.  As the tariff impact s begin to drop off the year-over-year inflation 
figures, there should be scope for the Fed to achieve this. Irrespective, a short rate of around 3% and long rate of 
around 4% is more normal than we have seen in decades. 
Capital market conditions have improved meaningfully. Both debt and equity markets have strong depth and 
liquidity, with debt issuers in particular able to raise capital at historically tight spreads. This  has increased 
confidence across the investment landscape and supported a pickup in M&A activity. If interest rates evolve as 
expected, this dynamic should strengthen. Private real assets in this environment will continue to outperform.  
Performance was Strong in 2025 
The Price of Brookfield in the markets generated a 21% return in 2025. This exceeded the S&P 500, which was 
propelled by technology. As an indication of the returns that can be generated for you over the longer term, outlined 
below are our stock market returns on a compound return basis over the past 30+ years. For reference, $1 million 
invested 30+ years ago in Brookfield Corporation is worth $ 285 million today, representing an annualized return 
of 19%. Over the longer term, our stock price and intrinsic value per share have tracked each other. 
Compound Stock Market Performance of Brookfield Corporation1 
 
Years 
Value of $1 Million 
Invested in BN 
 
BN NYSE 
 
S&P 500 
10-Year U.S. 
Treasuries 
                 $ %                                    %  %0 
1  1,210,000 21 18  8 
15 10,700,000 17 14  2 
30+ 285,200,000 19 11  3 
 

Q4 2025 Letter to Shareholders  2 
With respect to this year, results were strong. D istributable earnings (“ Cashflows”) before realizations were a 
record $ 5.4 billion, or $ 2.27 per share, for the year. This was up 11% per share over the prior year. More 
importantly, Cashflows before realizations per share has grown at an annual rate of ~18% since 2021. 
Our asset management business delivered record results, raising $112 billion during the year across flagship and 
complementary strategies, which underscores sustained demand for our global investment capabilities.  During 
the year, we also continued to scale and diversify the global footprint of our wealth solutions business, advancing 
several key strategic initiatives—including receiving shareholder approval to acquire Just Group in the U.K., entry 
into the Japanese market, and continued progress expanding access to U.S. private wealth distribution channels. 
Our operating businesses generated strong Cashflows, supported by strong underlying fundamentals, high-quality 
assets, and continued progress advancing partnerships t o enhance long -term growth.  We completed record 
monetizations of  $91 billion. With continued progress returning capital to investors and a  robust pipeline of 
additional asset sales, we expect to realize significant carried interest into income over the next three years.  
Business Success is About Focusing on the Long-Term 
Long-term business success requires many things, but we believe three in particular stand out. Each is important 
on their own but the three together are the difference between good and great long -term returns. The first is 
identifying a good business with secular long -term trends behind it. The second is running a business well and 
letting compound returns do the work . The third is ensuring that you are never forced to be disrupted in the 
compounding of your returns. 
First, one must find a business which can endure and evolve. For decades we have been focused on building out 
the backbone of the global economy —broadly speaking , this means that we are behind the scenes providing 
“infrastructure” to companies and individuals. Underlying this broad theme, however, is the fact that the economy 
always evolves and we must evolve with it. For example, consider that while we still invest in the backbone of the 
global economy, 50% of the things that we invest in today did not exist as widely held institutional investments 
15 years ago—i.e. telecom towers, data centers, solar plants, and battery systems. 
In addition, we try to identify themes that enable us to invest in growing sectors. For the past decade, we have 
had three main themes: digitalization, decarbonization, and deglobalization. Each of these is still more important 
today for investing than when we started with them nearly ten years ago. For example, we have been building 
power plants for many decades  but, now, for the first time in forty years , we are in a period of a very large and 
sustained power build-out that has decades to run. 
With all this in place, the second miracle of business can take hold: compound returns. Albert Einstein said it best: 
“Compound interest is the eighth wonder of the world. He who understands it, earns it... he who doesn’t, pays it.” 
When one extends an investment horizon across decades, compounding stops being part of the equation, but 
instead becomes the dominant force. Small differences in annual returns translate into profound differences in 
long-term outcomes; this is not arithmetic, but instead exponential. 
  

Q4 2025 Letter to Shareholders  3 
To put it in perspective, over the last 30+ years, by sticking to these core principles of compounding,  the price of 
our stock, as a proxy for Value , has compounded at 19%.  Over the same period, the assets we have managed 
have expanded from $6 billion to more than $1 trillion  and as you can see below, each of our metrics have 
continued to compound. 
 
AS AT AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DEC 31 
($ MILLIONS) 
1995 2005  2015  2020  2025  
30-year 
Compound 
Growth2 
Revenues $       278  $         5,220  $       19,913  $       64,111  $        75,100  21% 
Operating Income         195             1,319             5,480           16,022            28,506  18% 
Cashflows          179                613             1,728             4,220              6,008  13% 
Assets Under Management       6,000           49,700         227,803         601,983       1,181,483  20% 
Corporate Borrowings          727             1,620             3,936             9,077            14,301  11% 
Market Capitalization       1,488           12,988           30,345           50,787          103,009 15% 
 
Lastly, and most importantly, one must never be disrupted in the compounding process. Disruptions can arise as 
a result of impatience leading to the premature sale of  an investment, or getting spooked by the markets and 
cashing out. For us, it means that we must always keep excess capital available to ensure that we can ride through 
any market cycle.  
Holding e xcess fortress capital does mean that one never maximizes short -term returns, but it should be 
considered insurance. You only buy insurance for the possibility of a problem, and you hope you never have to 
make a claim. Similarly, holding excess capital and forego ing greater returns  ensures that you are never in a 
situation of disruption to the compounding miracle. 
Our Goal is to Partner With the Best 
Our business strategy is to buy the best businesses, in the best countries, with the best management teams. We 
have found that the price for these types of business es tends to be a bit higher; however, we have learned that  
when running a business, quality always becomes apparent with the best. 
Our business relationships have also increasingly come to be with the best—as exemplified by some of our recent 
transactions. In 2025, we inked a number of important  transactions across our businesses , with just a few 
examples here: 
With Google, we signed an agreement to sell them hydro power from two of our facilities in Pennsylvania. These 
20-year contracts for over $3 billion of power are among the largest private contracts for hydro power ever signed 
and will provide baseload power to Google in an important data center market in the U.S.; this in turn will facilitate 
build-out of their data center operations. 
With NVIDIA, we signed a deal to build ai factories on a global basis , and they partnered with us to launch our 
new fund that will invest in ai infrastructure, including ai factories. This partnership is planned for $100 billion and 
is one of the first of its kind on a global basis. 
With JPMorgan, we signed a build -to-suit agreement for a new office complex in the Powai business district of 
Mumbai, and they also announced plans to build a new European headquarters on our Canary Wharf Estate, 
reinforcing Canary Wharf’s position as a premier location for large-scale global financial services tenants. The two 
complexes will encompass upwards of 5 million square feet and house around 25,000 people. This will provide 
modern best-in-class infrastructure built for the future to house their people. 

Q4 2025 Letter to Shareholders  4 
With Microsoft, we continue to build  them solar and wind facilities under a framework agreement for over 
10.5 gigawatts of power. This is the largest power framework agreement ever signed and will facilitate their growth 
in renewables to fuel their power needs. 
With the U.S. Government, our Westinghouse business signed a deal to sell the U.S. government $80 billion of 
nuclear reactors. This will assist us to restart the supply chain for nuclear in the United States and will create very 
substantial employment. This first of its kind contract will enable us to restart the industry. 
Flexibility and Change are Critical to Long Term Success 
The ability to continually adapt is the lifeblood of a great long -term business. Consider what Meta, Alphabet and 
Amazon were 25 years ago —and what they have become today. Meta was just Facebook, Alphabet was only 
Google, and Amazon sold books. Consider that Tesla will likely not be a car company in the long term.  
The ability to be flexible is one of the greatest advantages that some companies have. Single industry businesses 
are great—if you get the sector right, but seldom do trends last forever and most businesses that do not evolve 
will wither and die. Think Kodak cameras. 
Being trusted by shareholders to continuously adapt an investment model is a special privilege. One can then 
focus on  allocating capital to generate the greatest returns over the longer term. This flexibility is extremely 
valuable—and compared to others wh o are constrained by mandates, allows for the evolution of a business in 
this ever-changing world.  
Furthermore, pressure to invest capital in a specific sector or market is one of the most damaging factors to long-
term investment returns. It can lead to overpaying for assets or merely investing capital in sectors with sub -par 
long term returns. In contrast, moving capital to sectors which have a shortage  or will define the future provide 
excellent opportunities to earn outsized returns . However, conviction, confidence and a supportive group of 
investors are necessary. Access to capital with flexible mandates also provides additional optionality—and in our 
case, we have: 
Flexibility to move capital globally  – Within reason and within the areas of our expertise, we can direct our 
investment capital towards markets where returns are the most attractive. Today , most of our  excess capital is 
going towards digitalization, decarbonization and deglobalization  whereas years ago it was going into property, 
pipeline infrastructure and hydro facilities. This flexibility often adds very substantially to risk/reward returns over 
the longer term. 
Flexibility to reallocate resources – We can reallocate our people and other corporate resources to the geographic 
regions where we see opportunities. For example, we have reallocated a  number of senior people to  India and 
the Middle East in the past decade in order to capitalize on opportunities there. 
Flexibility to build or buy – Because we have deep operating and development capabilities, we can either develop 
new projects or acquire assets. We always weigh new -build opportunities against acquisitions , as it is almost 
always lower risk to buy at a discount to cost than to  develop ourselves. Our construction and development 
capabilities also give us the added benefit of keeping our underwriting standards sharp because we are always in 
touch with the replacement cost of assets. 
Flexibility to repurchase our own assets – Given we have many partners, funds and public companies, we always 
weigh increasing the ownership of existing assets through buying the shares of our publicly listed operations  or 
other fund interests  against investing capital in external opportunities. Repurchasing our own assets is always 
less risky. In addition,  public market acquisitions are sometimes also attractive because assets can often be 
purchased at less than tangible value, as we can exploit our views of Value versus the market Price. 

Q4 2025 Letter to Shareholders  5 
Flexibility to access all sources of capital – Given our scale, we are among the largest counterpart ies of most 
major financial organizations in the world ; we can therefore access capital in different forms and at better rates 
and terms than smaller businesses . This is an enormous benefit when buying and selling businesses.  We also 
have access to both the public markets through our public entities, and the institutional market through our funds. 
The growth of our private wealth products for individuals will only enhance this access.  
Overall, we continue to build the organization based on maintaining this flexibility to ensure a low-risk way to earn 
solid returns. As is the case for a select few, we should therefore be able to enhance our returns more than single 
industry businesses over the longer term. 
We are Laying the Backbone Infrastructure for AI 
With ai increasingly in the headlines, we thought it was an appropriate time to outline how we are approaching 
this investment opportunity. Our focus is not on predicting which models will win, which chips will dominate, or 
which applications will ultimately prove enduring . Instead, we are focused on the structural need for large-scale, 
long-duration infrastructure capacity to support the growth of ai, and on investing in the essential physical assets 
required to enable it. 
We are in the early stages of a multi-decade infrastructure investment cycle. Ai is emerging as a general-purpose 
technology, and realizing its potential will require unprecedented levels of physical infrastructure investment. Over 
the next decade, $7 trillion of capital will be required across the ai value chain, spanning data centers, power 
generation, compute infrastructure, grid modernization, fiber networks and related adjacencies. For us, this 
represents a large and expanding opportunity set that naturally extends our existing real estate, renewable power, 
and infrastructure businesses. 
The role of private capital in this build-out is most evident where scale, duration and sophistication create natural 
barriers to entry. While ai is often discussed in terms of chips and algorithms, the largest constraint today is not 
technology or capital, but access to reliable power and the infrastructure required to deliver it. Meeting that 
demand requires long-life investments in power generation, grid reinforcement and firming capacity, alongside the 
physical infrastructure that converts power into usable compute. 
Over the long term, the trajectory of the technology sector is defined by a dual mandate: the development of 
increasingly sophisticated models capable of solving complex challenges, and the aggressive reduction of the 
marginal cost of compute. This dynamic creates a powerful economic cycle, with increasingly efficient and capable 
compute accelerating adoption across the global economy and unlocking unprecedented gains in productivity and 
scientific discovery.  
Achieving this mandate, however, is fundamentally a function of physical scale. The 'brains' of next generation ai 
require an industrial -grade backbone that can support high power densities and seamless connectivity. As a 
provider of large -scale capital and a strategic owner of core infrastructure, we are partner ing with the world’s 
leading technology firms to build the foundational capacity required. 
How we deploy capital into this opportunity is simple: our focus is on projects with land, power, long-term contracts 
and high-quality, investment-grade counterparties or other hard assets with tangible value.  At this stage of the 
cycle, we believe the backbone infrastructure winners will be those who own and build foundational infrastructure 
for the strongest sovereign governments and investment-grade counterparties in the world.  
The scale of this build -out far exceeds what corporate or sovereign balance sheets can fund alone, and favors 
investors with operating expertise, access to long -term capital , and the ability to execute large, sophisticated 
projects consistently through cycles—attributes that align with how we have built our business over many decades. 

Q4 2025 Letter to Shareholders  6 
Great Real Estate Always Wins Over Time 
Over the past forty years we have invested in, operated, and monetized real estate across market cycles . While 
market sentiment toward real estate inevitably shifts as capital flows tighten and loosen , and interest rates rise 
and fall, our experience has been consistent: great real estate, owned and operated well, compounds value over 
the longer term. This point can be exemplified by our portfolio, which, based on cash invested and cash taken out, 
has a negative book value (i.e., we have no net cash equity at cost invested), but has an estimated equity value 
of around $25 billion. 
Our approach to real estate has always been grounded in fundamentals. We acquire assets for value, finance 
them conservatively and manage them actively.  Some of the value in the real estate we own is created at 
acquisition, but much is created during ownership—through leasing execution, reinvestment, redevelopment and 
disciplined day-to-day operations. Cashflow generation is central to our operating model and is actively managed, 
informing how we operate, reinvest, and allocate capital through periods of di sruption. 
This owner-operator model gives us control over outcomes, which proved especially important in the most recent 
cycle. Dislocation was driven largely by capital markets reacting to shifting perceptions rather than by a 
deterioration in underlying operating fundamentals. While broader sentiment caused many to step back, we 
remained active—continuing to invest, develop and reposition assets. As a result, with new supply across our core 
markets muted and demand growing, asset values are set to rise substantially. 
Properties that we delivered or substantially repositioned over the past few years, including office assets in major 
global markets, are now nearly fully leased and achieving some of the highest rents on record. This includes 
buildings in Midtown Manhattan, West Side Manhattan, the City of London, the West End of London, and Dubai 
— all of which are now achieving record rents at circa 50% above those achieved pre-COVID. One recent example 
is One Leadenhall in London, a new office development started in the depth of COVID  in 2021 and delivered in 
the last few months. The building is now nearly fully leased, with overall rents 20% higher than expectations, and 
the last leases signed approximately 50% higher than expectations and among the highest ever rents signed in 
the City of London. 
This dynamic has also driven strong leasing across our broader portfolio. Large, creditworthy tenants are making 
long-term commitments to the highest -quality assets, with companies such as Visa , JPMorgan,  and Moody’s 
relocating significant portions of their operations to our properties, alongside many of our other high-quality tenants 
that executed long-term renewals and expansions.  
Over the last year, sentiment has begun to realign with fundamentals. Liquidity has started to return to markets , 
and during the year we sold $ 24 billion of real estate while investing $33 billion in high-conviction investment 
opportunities. At the same time, we had our largest year of real estate financing yet , reflecting both improving 
market conditions and the depth of opportunities across our real estate platforms. 
We enter this next phase from a position of strength, owning high -quality assets in supply -constrained markets 
and operating them through leading global platforms. As we have seen across cycles, great real estate, owned 
and managed well, always wins over t ime, and with few pla yers as strong and well-positioned as us, we should 
be able to capitalize even more on this recovery. 
We are Streamlining the Business 
For 25 years, we have managed private funds for institutional and high -net-worth clients. More recently, we 
expanded our offerings to manage private funds for individuals through various channels, which are set to grow 
exponentially as greater allocations of retirement accounts and 401(k)s are made to alternatives. 

Q4 2025 Letter to Shareholders  7 
Over the last 15+ years, we have also offered a listed version of our investment strategies in each of infrastructure, 
renewables, and private equity (and originally real estate also)—namely, our listed partnerships that were originally 
formed in Bermuda to maximize their flow-through efficiency in accessing capital globally. 
In 2020, to further enhance the accessibility of these entities to global investors, we paired each of these 
partnerships with a listed “sister” corporate entity. Similarly, when we created our insurance business  over five 
years ago, we used the same pairing structure such that the insurance business became a listed “sister” entity to 
BN, trading under the symbol BNT. 
While our paired structures have been instrumental in helping us appeal to the broadest global investor base, with 
the continued and increasing expansion of index investing, splitting market capitalizations has now become sub-
optimal. 
As an initial step, last year we announced the combination of Brookfield Business Partners with its sister, 
Brookfield Business Corporation. As a result of this transaction, we will soon have a single listed entity that is fully 
index eligible and reflects  the combined market cap of the two entities. Since announcement, the stocks are up 
±30%.  
Next, we intend to work this year on merging BN with its paired security BNT.  This will further streamline our 
structure and also support the next evolution of Brookfield, with one entity conducting all of our insurance and 
balance sheet investment activities. In addition to streamlining our structure, this will add substantial additional 
capital to our insurance operations,  facilitating both the growth of the overall business and the advancement of 
our real asset focused investment strategy.  
Finally, we will over time also assess our other listed entities to determine whether we can achieve more 
streamlining of their structures while also ensuring maximum business efficiency. 
Closing 
Last week, Connor Teskey was appointed CEO of BAM. I will continue as Chair of that Board in addition to my 
role as CEO of overall Brookfield. This appointment culminates a four-year transition process and is an important 
step in positioning our next generation of management to lead the company for the next ±25 years. We are excited 
about the prospects for BAM and thrilled to assist Connor and his team as they take BAM to new levels of success. 
We remain committed to investing capital for you in high -quality assets that earn solid cash returns on equity, 
while emphasizing downside protection for the capital employed. The primary objective of the company continues 
to generate increased Cashflows on a per-share basis and, as a result, higher intrinsic value per share over the 
longer term. 
Thank you for your interest in Brookfield, and please do not hesitate to contact any of us should you have 
suggestions, questions, comments, or ideas you wish to share. 
Sincerely, 
 
  
Bruce Flatt 
Chief Executive Officer  
February 12, 2026 
 


Q4 2025 Letter to Shareholders  8 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Information 
All references to “$” or “Dollars” are to U.S. Dollars. This letter to shareholders contains “forward-looking information” within the meaning of Canadian provincial securities laws 
and “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, “safe harbor” provisions of the United States 
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and in any applicable Canadian securities regulations (collectively, “forward-looking statements”). Forward-looking statements 
include statements that are predictive in nature, depend upon or refer to future results, events or conditions, and include, but are not limited to, statements which reflect 
management’s current estimates, beliefs and assumptions regar ding the operations, business, financial condition, expected financial results, performance, prospects, 
opportunities, priorities, targets, goals, ongoing objectives, strategies, capital management and outlook of Brookfield Corpo ration and its subsidiaries , as well as the outlook 
for North American and international economies for the current fiscal year and subsequent periods, and which in turn are based on our experience and perception of historical 
trends, current conditions and expected future developments, as well as other factors management believes are appropriate in the circumstances. The estimates, beliefs and 
assumptions of Brookfield Corporation are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive and other uncertainties and contingencies regarding future events 
and as such, are subject to change. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “foresee,” “could,” “estimate,” “goal,” 
“intend,” “plan,” “seek,” “strive,” “will,” “may” and “should” and similar expressions. In particular, the forward -looking statements contained in this letter include statements 
referring to the impact of current market or economic conditions on our business, the future state of the economy or the s ecurities market, the anticipated allocation and 
deployment of our capital, our liquidity and ability to access and raise capital, our fundraising targets, our target growth objectives, our target carried interest and the impact of 
acquisitions and dispositions on our business. 
Although Brookfield Corporation believes that such forward -looking statements are based upon reasonable estimates, beliefs and assumptions, actual results may differ 
materially from the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to  differ materially from those contemplated or implied by forward -looking statements 
include, but are not limited to: (i) returns that are lower than target; (ii) the impact or unanticipated impact of general e conomic, political and market factors in the co untries in 
which we do business; (iii) the behavior of financial markets, including fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates and heightened inflationary pressures; (iv) global 
equity and capital markets and the availability of equity and debt fi nancing and refinancing within these markets; (v) strategic actions including acquisitions and dispositions; 
the ability to complete and effectively integrate acquisitions into existing operations and the ability to attain expected benefits; (vi) changes in accounting policies and methods 
used to report financial condition (including uncertainties associated with critical accounting assumptions and estimates); (vii) the ability to appropriately manage human capital; 
(viii) the effect of applying future accounting changes; (ix) business competition; (x) operational and reputational risks; (xi) technological change; (xii) changes i n government 
regulation and legislation within the countries in which we operate; (xiii) governmental investigations and sanctions;  (xiv) litigation; (xv) changes in tax laws; (xvi) ability to 
collect amounts owed; (xvii) catastrophic events, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and epidemics/pandemics; (xviii) the possib le impact of international conflicts and other 
developments including terrorist acts and cyberterrorism;  (xix) the introduction, withdrawal, success and timing of business initiatives and strategies; (xx) the failure of effective 
disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting and other risks; (xxi) health, safety and environmental risks; (xxii) the maintenance of adequate 
insurance coverage; (xxiii) the existence of information barriers between certain businesses within our asset management oper ations; (xxiv) risks specific to our business  
segments including asset management, wealth solutions, renewable power and transition, infrastructure, private equity, real e state and corporate activities; and (xxv) factors 
detailed from time to time in our documents filed with the securities regulators in Canada and the United States. 
We caution that the foregoing list of important factors that may affect future results is not exhaustive and other factors co uld also adversely affect future results. Readers are 
urged to consider these risks, as well as other uncertainties, factors and as sumptions carefully in evaluating the forward -looking statements and are cautioned not to place 
undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which are based only on information available to us as of the date of this letter or such other date specified herein. Except 
as required by law, Brookfield Corporation undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, that may be as a result 
of new information, future events or otherwise. 
Past performance is not indicative nor a guarantee of future results. There can be no assurance that comparable results will be achieved in the future, that future investments 
will be similar to historic investments discussed herein, that targeted returns, growth objectives, diversification or asset allocations will be met or that an investment strategy or 
investment objectives will be achieved (because of economic conditions, the availability of appropriate opportunities or othe rwise). 
Target returns and growth objectives set forth in this letter are for illustrative and informational purposes only and have b een presented based on various assumptions made 
by Brookfield Corporation in relation to the investment strategies being pursued, a ny of which may prove to be incorrect. There can be no assurance that targeted returns or 
growth objectives will be achieved. Due to various risks, uncertainties and changes (including changes in economic, operation al, political or other circumstances) bey ond 
Brookfield Corporation’s control, the actual performance of the business could differ materially from the target returns and growth objectives set forth herein. In addition, 
industry experts may disagree with the assumptions used in presenting the targ et returns and growth objectives. No assurance, representation or warranty is made by any 
person that the target returns or growth objectives will be achieved, and undue reliance should not be put on them. All refer ences to asset monetizations include comp leted 
transactions and transactions in the process of being completed. 
When we speak about our wealth solutions business or Brookfield Wealth Solutions, we are referring to Brookfield’s investments in this business that supported the acquisitions 
of its underlying operating subsidiaries. 
Cautionary Statement Regarding the Use of Non-IFRS Measures 
This letter to shareholders contains references to financial measures that are calculated and presented using methodologies o ther than in accordance with IFRS. These 
financial measures, which include Distributable Earnings (as defined below), its component s and its per share equivalent, should not be considered as the sole measure of 
our performance and should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, similar financial measures calculated in accordance with IFRS. We caution readers that 
these non-IFRS financial measures or other financial metrics are not standardized under IFRS and may differ from the financial measures  or other financial metrics disclosed 
by other businesses and, as a result, may not be comparable to similar measures pres ented by other issuers and entities. 
We make reference to Distributable Earnings ("Cashflows") , which refers to the sum of distributable earnings from our asset management business, distributable operating 
earnings from our wealth solutions business, distributions received from our ownership of investments, realized carried interest and disposition gains from principal investments, 
net of preferred share dividends and equity -based compensation costs. We also make reference to Distributable Earnings before realizations, which refers to Distributable  
Earnings before realized carried interest and dispo sition gains from principal investments, and net operating income, which refers to the revenues from our operations less 
direct expenses before the impact of depreciation and amortization within our real estate business. Our outlook for growth in  Distributable Earnings assumes growth in fee -
related earnings and realized carried interest in line with our business plans, which assume growth in our fee bearing capita l consistent with our fundraising plans, capital 
deployment expectations, maintaining the fee rates we earn on fee bearing capital and earning margins consistent with our current margin. Actual results may vary materiall y 
and are subject to market conditions and other factors and risks set out above. For more information on non -IFRS measures and oth er financial metrics, see Brookfield 
Corporation’s Q4 2025 Press Release, which includes reconciliations of these non -IFRS financial measures to their most directly comparable financial measures calculated 
and presented in accordance with IFRS. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Endnotes 
1. Figures for BN represent annualized total return, with dividends reinvested from August 31, 1993, to December 31, 2025.  
2. Revenues and Operating Income for 2020 and 2025 includes amounts from Oaktree and BWS that are accounted for using the equity method under IFRS. Distributable 
Earnings ("Cashflows") prior to 2020 were determined by applying historic payout ratios to reported FFO.  
 