Source ID: PS-VD-064
Firm: Brookfield Asset Management
Title: BAM Investor Day 2024 Presentation
Document Type: investor_day
Bias Tag: company-produced
Seed URL: https://bam.brookfield.com/events-news/investor-presentations
Loaded URL: https://bam.brookfield.com/sites/brookfield-bam-v2/files/BAM-IR-Master/Presentations/2025/Q3-25-bam-investor-presentation-vff.pdf
Brookfield Asset 
Management
Investor Presentation
November 2025

BROOKFIELD.COM
Brookfield Asset Management is a leading pure-play 
global asset manager
Strong fundraising capabilities across flagships and complementary strategies, with continual product expansion
Leadership position in fast-growing sectors with tailwinds fueling growth for decades
Best-in-class transaction execution and operational capabilities at an unmatched scale
Track record of delivering attractive risk-adjusted returns over the long term
Identified business plan and platform to exceed our 15%+ long term targets, with a path to deliver ~20% annual 
earnings growth over the next five years and beyond 
2
Long term, structural tailwinds and strong business fundamentals will propel our business, 
enabling our success today and tomorrow

Company Overview
Brookfield Asset Management is a leading pure-play global 
asset manager

BROOKFIELD.COM
Assets Under Management Fee-Bearing Capital Market Capitalization
125-year owner-operator and leader across real asset investing 
4
Brookfield Asset Management Today
$1T+ $581B $90B
Focused on the backbone of the global economy
Renewable 
Power & Transition
Infrastructure Real EstatePrivate Equity Credit
Investing across five key verticals
See Notice to Recipients and Endnotes, including endnotes 1 and 2

BROOKFIELD.COM
Global presence with a local mindset
5
We operate in over 50 countries, with 250K+ operating employees
Americas
$770B+ AUM
850 Investment 
Professionals
Europe & 
Middle East
$230B+ AUM
300 Investment 
Professionals
Asia Pacific
$140B+ AUM
200 Investment 
Professionals

BROOKFIELD.COM 6
Digitalization Deglobalization Decarbonization
These forces are accelerating, growing the opportunity for large-scale private capital
Source: The Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ)
Secular megatrends will require $100+ trillion of capital
Our businesses are positioned to benefit from the forces shaping the global economy

BROOKFIELD.COM 7
Fundraising channels
• Institutional 
• Insurance
• Private Wealth
• Public Markets
Investing in attractive, 
durable asset classes
Infrastructure
Transition
Private Equity
Real Estate
Credit
Brookfield 
Asset 
Management
Capital
raising Investing
Our business model is simple and effective
Our structure provides access to all major pools of capital and provides a range of investors 
with a tailored approach to meet their objectives

BROOKFIELD.COM
Our leadership position enables accelerated growth
8
Excellent risk-adjusted returns 
Consistency across cycles
Scale 
The right asset classes
…and it matters
Fundraise on a greater scale
Attract a more diverse capital base
Source proprietary deal flow
Foresee trends and act quickly
Launch new strategies
Leadership is earned…

Positioned to Win 
Today and Tomorrow
Brookfield Asset Management is a leading pure-play global 
asset manager

BROOKFIELD.COM
The past 20 years have seen major tailwinds for alternatives… 
and there is much more to come
Sources: Preqin; Bain analysis; PwC; Company estimates
10
Key growth drivers
• Global AUM growth
• Institutional investors increasing 
allocations to alternatives
• Investors consolidating their 
exposure to the largest and most 
diversified managers
Why investors are choosing to 
invest their growing capital base
in alternative assets
Excess returns
Diversification
Less volatility
Predictable cash flow
Today2002
~5%
$40T
Global AUM
~15%
$150T+
Global AUM
$25T
Alternatives 
AUM 20%+
$300T+
Global AUM
$60T+
Alternatives 
AUM
2032E
$2T
Alternatives 
AUM 

BROOKFIELD.COM
IndividualsProducts Partnerships Performance
11
Our platform is positioned to deliver in all economic 
environments and win across the market cycle
Built to continuously add new growth levers to our business 

BROOKFIELD.COM
Leadership in key areas provides a platform for product innovation
12
Infrastructure
Largest global 
infrastructure 
platform
Renewable Power 
& Transition
Largest dedicated 
renewable power & 
transition platform
Private Equity
Top performing 
private equity 
flagship strategy
Real Estate
Leading global real 
estate manager
Credit
Largest opportunistic 
credit and leading 
asset-based finance 
platforms
12
Allows us to expand our offering to meet the needs of investors and market opportunities
We have positioned ourselves as a leader within our sectors of focus across 
the Brookfield Ecosystem
Products

BROOKFIELD.COM
The next big thing
13
Products
We can deliver the full capabilities of Brookfield to meet the unprecedented 
investment needed globally for AI infrastructure
$7T+
Infrastructure 
Renewable Power
Real Estate
Strategic AdjacenciesCompute Infrastructure
Power & TransmissionAI Factories 
10-Year Expected 
Capex Spend
Credit
Private Equity
Source: Brookfield Asset Management. Building the Backbone of AI

BROOKFIELD.COM
Delivering speed, certainty and the ability to execute at scale
14
Partnerships
Governments Corporates
Few others can bring together the capital, capabilities and track record to deliver like we do.
When needs go beyond just capital, organizations turn to Brookfield
We are a partner of choice to the largest, most sophisticated institutions in pursuit of their 
strategic initiatives, including: 

BROOKFIELD.COM
Large-scale, proprietary deal flow
Enhances value of 
operating businesses
Superior risk-adjusted returns
The best partnerships unlock the best opportunities
15
Partnerships
These partners are not only 
counterparties, but also increasingly:
Investors 
Off-takers
Tenants 
JV partners
Why partnerships matter:

BROOKFIELD.COM
High-quality real assets deliver stability, resilience and value across cycles
Strong performance at scale is our competitive advantage
16
We invest in essential, durable assets that form the backbone of the global economy
Performance

BROOKFIELD.COM
Consistency earns trust and fuels the growth of future funds, products and investors
Our strategies have delivered strong, consistent performance
17
Gross Return Net Return
Fund History Target Actual Target Actual
Infrastructure 15 years 13% 15% 11% 12%
Renewable Power & Transition 4 years 14% 19% 11% 14%
Private Equity 24 years 22% 26% 18% 20%
Real Estate 19 years 20% 19% 16% 15%
Opportunistic Credit 37 years 15% 22% 10% 16%
Performance
See Notice to Recipients and Endnotes, including endnotes 11 through 17

BROOKFIELD.COM
Individual investors represent a new engine of growth
Sources: Preqin, Institutional Allocation Study 2025; BNY, The Alternatives Renaissance; Brookfield internal estimates
18
Individuals
Global Market Size
Alts allocation
~25%
Alts allocation
<3%
$22T
Institutional Pools
Pension Plans
Sovereign Wealth
~$40T
Individual Pools
Private Wealth
Annuities
401(k)s

BROOKFIELD.COM
We see further client growth from institutional investors
19
Individuals
Capital is consolidating 
with leaders who have:
Room to expand 
institutional clients across:
Global scale
Diverse product offerings
Access to high-growth asset classes
Established track record
Middle-market pensions 
Corporate pensions
Family capital
European investors

Business Group Overview
20

BROOKFIELD.COM
Products
Data
$77B
Utilities
$72B
Transport
$46B
Midstream
$36B
Key Sectors
Infrastructure Overview
21
Flagship Fund Complementary Strategies
Infrastructure Core Plus (BIF Series) Brookfield Supercore Infrastructure Partners (BSIP)
Brookfield Infrastructure Structured Solutions (BISS)
Permanent Capital Vehicle Brookfield AI Infrastructure (BAIIF)
Brookfield Infrastructure Partners (BIP / BIPC)
Brookfield is one of the world’s largest infrastructure investors, owners and operators
$242B
Assets Under Management
$101B
Fee-Bearing Capital
127
Investment Professionals
 Our Infrastructure business is ideally positioned at the epicenter of the global secular trends of deglobalization, decarboni zation and digitalization
 Infrastructure should benefit as these large-scale changes will require trillions of dollars of investment and Brookfield’s deep experience in this area provides a 
significant competitive advantage in attracting future growth capital
 Our investment focus is to provide clients with diversified exposure to high-quality businesses that benefit from significant barriers to entry and deliver essential 
goods and services. Infrastructure investments generate stable, inflation-protected cash flows, high margins and strong growth prospects
Overview

BROOKFIELD.COM
Solar
14,800 MW
Hydro
8,300 MW
Wind
17,300 MW
DG, Storage & 
Sustainable Solutions
8,300 MW
Renewable Power & Transition Overview
22
Flagship Fund Complementary Strategies
Global Transition (BGTF Series) Catalytic Transition (CTF)
Asia Renewable (BCRF)
Permanent Capital Vehicle
Brookfield Renewable Partners (BEP / BEPC)
Brookfield is one of the most impactful renewable power & transition investors, owners and operators
$137B
Assets Under Management
$69B
Fee-Bearing Capital
93
Investment Professionals
 Our renewable power & transition business complements global goals of net-zero emissions, low-cost energy and energy security
 Renewable power & transition should benefit as growing global demand for energy security and low -carbon energy will require substantial continued investment. 
Our large footprint, extensive experience and substantial pipeline give us unique industry knowledge and differentiate us as a strategic capital partner
 Our investment focus is to provide clients with exposure to critical sources of clean energy and energy transition with attra ctive risk-adjusted returns
ProductsKey Sectors
Overview

BROOKFIELD.COM
Private Equity Overview
Brookfield is one of the most experienced private equity investors globally
23
Infrastructure Services
$23B
Industrials
$44B
Business Services
$51B
Directly Held & Other
$33B
Flagship Fund Complementary Strategies
Brookfield Capital Partners (BCP) Brookfield Special Investments (BSI)
Brookfield Financial Infrastructure Partners (BFIP)
Permanent Capital Vehicle Brookfield Middle East Partners (BMEP)
Brookfield Business Partners (BBU / BBUC) Brookfield Sponsor Solutions (BSS)
 Our Private Equity platform seeks to invest in high-quality businesses that provide essential products and services and are resilient through market cycles
 Our investment focus is to acquire businesses on a value basis where we can leverage our operational expertise, knowledge and  relationships to enhance 
business performance and drive free cash flow generation
 Private Equity benefits from our large global footprint and the broader Brookfield ecosystem to surface investment opportunit ies
$151B
Assets Under Management
$46B
Fee-Bearing Capital
171
Investment Professionals
ProductsKey Sectors
Overview

BROOKFIELD.COM
Real Estate Overview
Brookfield is one of the largest real estate investors with a diversified portfolio in the world’s 
most well-established markets
24
Flagship Fund Complementary Strategies
Opportunistic Real Estate (BSREP Series) Brookfield Premier Real Estate Partners (BPREP)
Brookfield Non-Traded REIT
Permanent Capital Vehicle Brookfield Single Family Rental (BSFR)
Brookfield Property Group (BPG)
Housing
220K+ 
units
Office
~193M
sq. ft.
Logistics, Storage 
& NNN 600M+ sf 
logistics
Mixed Use, Retail 
& Entertainment
~150M combined 
sq. ft.
Hospitality
44K+ keys
Science & 
Innovation
5M+ sq. ft.
 Our Real Estate business seeks to build a diversified portfolio across property sectors
 We have built permanent operating platforms in our target markets, allowing us to execute on opportunities across the globe
 Our real estate strategies offer investors multiple access points along the risk-return spectrum
$272B
Assets Under Management
$102B
Fee-Bearing Capital
295
Investment Professionals
ProductsKey Sectors
Overview

BROOKFIELD.COM
Credit Overview
Brookfield’s credit strategies include our longstanding private credit and direct lending funds 
and our partnerships with leading credit managers
1. Investment professionals include Brookfield Credit Group, Brookfield Wealth Solutions, Public Securities Group (PSG), and partner manager professionals.
 Real Estate
 Asset Based 
 Infrastructure & Renewable
 Corporate
 Liquid
25
Partner ManagersBrookfield Credit Capabilities
Overview
$349B
Assets Under Management
$263B
Fee-Bearing Capital
647
Investment Professionals1
 Our Credit business offers clients access to one of the most comprehensive global alternative credit platforms
 Credit includes infrastructure debt, real estate debt, senior mezzanine real estate debt, insurance capital allocated into credi t products, and other Brookfield 
credit-related products 
 Credit also includes partnerships with leading credit managers where we have a significant non-controlling ownership stake, including Oaktree, Castlelake, LCM, 
Primary Wave, 17Capital and Angel Oak, which closed on October 1st, 2025

Financial Performance and 
Growth Targets
26

BROOKFIELD.COM
Successful efforts on ambitious targets led to record earnings
27
We exceeded our targets while returning over $130 billion to our clients
DE continues to be comprised of essentially 100% FRE, making it stable and highly predictable
Fee-Bearing Capital ($B)
15%+
CAGR
$277
$563
2020 2025
Fee-Related Earnings ($M)
15%+
CAGR
$1,319
$2,700
2020 2025

BROOKFIELD.COM
Compounding our proven growth model
28
We will continue to scale, expand and diversify across our three main drivers of growth
Flagship Funds Complementary 
Products
Wealth Solutions

BROOKFIELD.COM
30%+ Growth
1. Our flagship strategies will drive consistent growth
See Notice to Recipients and Endnotes, including endnotes 6 and 10
29
$120B+
2030 Round
$93B
2025 Round

BROOKFIELD.COM
2. Our complementary strategies will double in size
See Notice to Recipients and Endnotes, including endnotes 10 and 22
30
~$100B
2030
~$50B
Mature Strategies
~$50B
New Strategies
$52B
2025
100%+ Growth

BROOKFIELD.COM
15%
40%
45%
3. Wealth Solutions provides a unique growth engine
Figures presented represent fee-bearing capital we manage on behalf of Brookfield Wealth Solutions, which is incorporated across all five of our business groups
31
In a competitive market, we have a differentiated insurance partnership, but wealth is also coming
4%
36%
60%
Growing to
Private Funds
Private Non-Fund (SMAs)
Liquid Credit
$97B
2025 FBC
$325B+
2030 FBC

BROOKFIELD.COM
48%
14%
25%
13%
Long Term Permanent Capital Vehicles Perpetual Strategies Liquid Strategies
42%
9%
41%
8%
32
2025
87% 
Long Term or 
Permanent
2030
92% 
Long Term or 
Permanent
Growing 
To
Our stable capital base will continue to strengthen

BROOKFIELD.COM 33
Target 2031 –  2035 
Cumulative Realized Carried Interest
$30B
Gross
$10B
Net to BAM
$10B
Costs
$10B
Royalty to BN
Growing pool of carried interest will drive additional growth

BROOKFIELD.COM
Access to
401(k)s
Additional levers for growth
34
We can unlock upside beyond our base plan through various channels…
New 
Complementary
Funds 
Capital Solutions M&A
…which creates multiple paths to 20%+ annualized earnings growth

BROOKFIELD.COM
Robust liquidity position to drive growth
1. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time
35
Our strong liquidity and new debt capacity allow us to capitalize on opportunities and defend 
against downside risks
Corporate Liquidity Of New 6.077% 30-Year 
Senior Unsecured Notes 
Issued in Q3-25
Investment Grade Corporate 
Ratings
(1) (Fitch / S&P) 
$2.6B $750M A / A-
We are strategically positioned to support our enhance liquidity through
a variety of fund-raising channels

BROOKFIELD.COM
Key takeaways
36
We set ambitious targets—and have consistently delivered on them
Our growth is broad based and diversified across products, partnerships 
and individuals
We expect to double our business over the next five years—with multiple 
new engines to extend growth for years beyond
$1.2T FBC
16% CAGR
$5.8B FRE
17% CAGR
$5.9B DE
18% CAGR

Appendix
37

BROOKFIELD.COM
Senior management team
Brookfield’s senior management team possesses deep experience in our target regions, sectors and asset classes, as 
well as decades of investment expertise built on managing assets and businesses across market cycles
Bruce Flatt Connor Teskey Hadley Peer Marshall
CEO, Brookfield Asset 
Management
Joined Brookfield: 1990
President, Brookfield Asset 
Management; CEO Renewable 
Power & Transition
2012
Chief Financial Officer, Brookfield 
Asset Management and Managing 
Partner, Infrastructure
2015
Lowell Baron Anuj Ranjan Craig Noble Sam Pollock
CEO, Real Estate
2005
CEO, Private Equity
2006
CEO, Credit
2004
CEO, Infrastructure
1994
38

BROOKFIELD.COM
Notice to Recipients
39
Brookfield Asset Management Ltd. (“BAM,” “Brookfield Asset Management” 
or “Brookfield”) is not making any offer or invitation of any kind by 
communication of this presentation and under no circumstance is it to be 
construed as a prospectus or an advertisement. 
Except where otherwise indicated herein, the information provided herein is 
based on matters as they exist as of the date of this presentation and not as 
of any future date, is subject to change, and, unless required by law, will not 
be updated or otherwise revised to reflect information that subsequently 
becomes available or circumstances existing or changes occurring after the 
date hereof. 
Unless otherwise noted, all references to “$” or “Dollars” are to U.S. Dollars. 
This presentation includes certain financial information as of and for the last 
twelve months ended September 30, 2025.
Cautionary Note Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This presentation contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning 
of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
“safe harbor” provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation 
Reform Act of 1995 and “forward-looking information” within the meaning of 
other relevant securities legislation, including applicable securities laws 
in Canada, which reflect our current views with respect to, among other 
things, our operations and financial performance (collectively, “forward-
looking statements”). Forward-looking statements include statements that 
are predictive in nature, depend upon or refer to future results, events or 
conditions, and include, but are not limited to, statements which reflect 
management’s current estimates, beliefs and assumptions regarding the 
operations, business, financial condition, expected financial results, 
performance, prospects, opportunities, priorities, targets, goals, ongoing 
objectives, strategies, capital management and outlook of BAM, and its 
subsidiaries, as well as the outlook for North American and international 
economies for the current fiscal year and subsequent periods, and which in 
turn are based on our experience and perception of historical trends, current 
conditions and expected future developments, as well as other factors 
management believes are appropriate in the circumstances. The estimates, 
beliefs and assumptions of BAM are inherently subject to significant 
business, economic, competitive and other uncertainties and contingencies 
regarding future events and as such, are subject to change. Forward-looking 
statements are typically identified by words such as “expect”, “anticipate”, 
“believe”, “foresee”, “could”, “estimate”, “goal”, “intend”, “plan”, “seek”, “strive”, 
“will”, “aim”, “may” and “should” and similar expressions. In particular, the 
forward-looking statements contained in this presentation include 
statements referring to Brookfield Asset Management Ltd.’s growth 
prospects and liquidity, and the impact of acquisitions and dispositions on 
our business.
Although BAM believes that such forward-looking statements are based 
upon reasonable estimates, beliefs and assumptions, actual results may 
differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Factors that could 
cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated or implied 
by forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (i) volatility in 
the trading price of our class A limited voting shares; (ii) deficiencies in public 
company financial reporting and disclosures; (iii) the difficulty for investors to 
effect service of process and enforce judgments in various jurisdictions; (iv) 
being subjected to numerous laws, rules and regulatory requirements; (v) the 
potential ineffectiveness of our policies to prevent violations of applicable 
law; (vi) foreign currency risk and exchange rate fluctuations; (vii) further 
increases in interest rates; (viii) political instability or changes in government; 
(ix) unfavorable economic conditions or changes in the industries in which we 
operate; (x) inflationary pressures; (xi) catastrophic events, such as 
earthquakes, hurricanes, or pandemics/epidemics; (xii) ineffective 
management of sustainability considerations, and inadequate or ineffective 
health and safety programs; (xiii) failure of our information technology 
systems; (xiv) us and our managed assets becoming involved in legal 
disputes; (xv) losses not covered by insurance; (xvi) inability to collect on 
amounts owing to us; (xvii) operating and financial restrictions through 
covenants in our loan, debt and security agreements; (xviii) the material 
assets of BAM consist solely of its interest in the common shares of 
Brookfield Asset Management ULC; (xix) our liability for our asset 
management business; (xx) our ability to maintain our global reputation; (xxi) 
risks related to our renewable power and transition, infrastructure, private 
equity, real estate, and credit strategies; (xxii) the impact on growth in fee-
bearing capital of poor product development or marketing efforts; (xxiii) 
meeting our financial obligations due to our cash flow from our asset 
management business; (xxiv) our acquisitions; (xxv) requirement of temporary 
investments and backstop commitments to support our asset management 
business; (xxvi) revenues impacted by a decline in the size or pace of 
investments made by our managed assets; (xxvii) our earnings growth can 
vary, which may affect our dividend and the trading price of our class A 
limited voting shares; (xxviii) exposed risk due to increased amount and type 
of investment products in our managed assets; (xxix) information barriers that 
may give rise to conflicts and risks; (xxx) Brookfield Corporation (“BN”) 
exercising substantial influence over BAM; (xxxi) BN transferring the 
ownership of BAM to a third party; (xxxii) potential conflicts of interest with 
BN; (xxxiii) difficulty in maintaining our culture or managing our human capital; 
(xxxiv) United States and Canadian taxation laws and changes thereto and 
(xxxv) other factors described from time to time in our documents filed with 
the securities regulators in the United States and Canada.
We caution that the foregoing list of important factors that may affect future 
results is not exhaustive, and other factors could also adversely affect future 
results. Readers are urged to consider these risks, as well as other 
uncertainties, factors and assumptions carefully in evaluating the forward-
looking statements and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such 
forward-looking statements, which are based only on information available to 
us as of the date of this presentation. Except as required by law, we 
undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking 
statements, whether written or oral, that may be as a result of new 
information, future events or otherwise.
Past performance is not indicative nor a guarantee of future results. There 
can be no assurance that comparable results will be achieved in the future, 
that future investments will be similar to historic investments discussed 
herein, that targeted returns, growth objectives, diversification or asset 
allocations will be met or that an investment strategy or investment 
objectives will be achieved (because of economic conditions, the availability 
of appropriate opportunities or otherwise).

BROOKFIELD.COM
Notice to Recipients
40
Target returns and growth objectives set forth in this presentation are for 
illustrative and informational purposes only and have been presented based 
on various assumptions made by BAM in relation to the investment strategies 
being pursued, any of which may prove to be incorrect. There can be no 
assurance that targeted returns or growth objectives will be achieved. Due to 
various risks, uncertainties and changes (including changes in economic, 
operational, political or other circumstances) beyond our control, the actual 
performance of the business could differ materially from the target returns 
and growth objectives set forth herein. In addition, industry experts may 
disagree with the assumptions used in presenting the target returns and 
growth objectives. No assurance, representation or warranty is made by any 
person that the target returns or growth objectives will be achieved, and 
undue reliance should not be put on them. Prior performance is not 
indicative of future results and there can be no guarantee that we will achieve 
the target returns or growth objectives or be able to avoid losses.
The information in this presentation does not take into account an investor’s 
investment objectives, financial situation or particular needs and nothing 
contained herein should be construed as legal, business or tax advice. Each 
prospective investor should consult its own attorney, business adviser and 
tax advisor as to legal, business, tax and related matters concerning the 
information contained herein.
Non-GAAP Measures
We prepare our financial statements in conformity with the accounting 
principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”). 
This presentation discloses a number of non-GAAP financial and 
supplemental financial measures which are utilized in monitoring our asset 
management business, including for performance measurement, capital 
allocation and valuation purposes. We believe that providing these 
performance measures is helpful to investors in assessing the overall 
performance of our asset management business. These non-GAAP financial 
measures should not be considered as the sole measure of our business’ 
performance and should not be considered in isolation from, or as a 
substitute for, similar financial measures calculated in conformity with U.S. 
GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are not 
standardized financial measures and may not be comparable to similar 
financial measures used by other issuers. Non-GAAP measures include, but 
are not limited to: (i) distributable earnings (“Distributable Earnings”), (ii) fee 
revenues (“Fee Revenues”) and (iii) fee-related earnings (“Fee Related 
Earnings” or “FRE”). These non-GAAP measures are not standardized 
financial measures and may not be comparable to similar financial measures 
used by other issuers.
Supplemental financial measures 
Supplemental financial measures include assets under management 
(“AUM”), fee-bearing capital (“Fee-Bearing Capital”) and uncalled fund 
commitments (“Uncalled Fund Commitments”). 
Securities Law 
This presentation does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an 
offer to buy any securities of BAM.

BROOKFIELD.COM
Endnotes 
All data presented is as of September 30, 2025, unless otherwise noted. 
Totals may not add due to rounding.
1. Assets under management (“AUM”) refers to the total fair value of 
assets managed, calculated as: investment that Brookfield, which 
includes Brookfield Corporation, Brookfield Asset Management, or their 
affiliates, either: i) consolidates for accounting purposes (generally, 
investments in respect of which Brookfield has a significant economic 
interest and unilaterally directs day-to-day operating, investing and 
financing activities), or ii) does not consolidate for accounting purposes 
but over which Brookfield has significant influence by virtue of one or 
more attributes (e.g., being the largest investor in the investment, having 
the largest representation on the investment’s governance body, being 
the primary manager and/or operator of the investment, and/or having 
other significant influence attributes), iii) are calculated at 100% of the 
total fair value of the investment taking into account its full capital 
structure —  equity and debt —  on a gross asset value basis, even if 
Brookfield does not own 100% of the investment, with the exception of 
investments held through our perpetual funds, which are calculated at 
its proportionate economic share of the investment’s net asset value. All 
other investments are calculated at Brookfield’s proportionate 
economic share of the total fair value of the investment taking into 
account its full capital structure —  equity and debt —  on a gross asset 
value basis, with the exception of investments held through our 
perpetual funds, which are calculated at Brookfield’s proportionate 
economic share of the investment’s net asset value. Our methodology 
for determining AUM differs from the methodology that is employed by 
other alternative asset managers as well as the methodology for 
calculating regulatory AUM that is prescribed for certain regulatory 
filings (e.g., Form ADV and Form PF). 
2. Fee-bearing capital represents the capital committed, pledged or 
invested in the perpetual affiliates, private funds and liquid strategies 
that we manage which entitles us to earn fee revenues. Fee-bearing 
capital includes both called (“invested”) and uncalled (“pledged” or 
“committed”) amounts. When reconciling period amounts, we utilize the 
following definitions: i) Inflows include capital commitments and 
contributions to our private and liquid strategies funds and equity 
issuances in our perpetual affiliates; ii) Outflows represent distributions 
and redemptions of capital from within liquid strategies; iii) Distributions 
represent quarterly distributions from perpetual affiliates as well as 
returns of committed capital (excluding market valuation adjustments) 
and redemptions; iv) Market activity includes gains (losses) on portfolio 
investments, perpetual affiliates and liquid strategies based on market 
prices; and v) Other includes foreign exchange for funds not 
denominated in USD, end of period adjustments for our flagship funds, 
and changes in non-recourse leverage in our listed affiliates. 
3. Investment professionals include personnel involved in the capital 
allocation process, including investment analysis and transaction 
execution, portfolio management and other personnel across 
Brookfield and/or in its applicable sectors, including investment 
managers in which Brookfield holds a significant interest. Information 
barriers may restrict the ability of certain investment professionals 
included in this figure to share information with each other. Operating 
employees include personnel working at Brookfield’s (and/or its 
applicable sectors’) related operating businesses and portfolio 
companies. 
4. Fee-related earnings are comprised of fee revenues less direct costs 
associated with earning those fees, which include employee expenses 
and professional fees as well as business related technology costs, and 
other shared services. We use this measure to provide additional insight 
into the operating profitability of our asset management activities. 
Distributable earnings is a non-GAAP measure that provides insight into 
earnings that are available for distribution to common shareholders or 
to be reinvested into the business. It is calculated as the sum of fee-
related earnings and realized carried interest; returns from our 
corporate cash and financial assets; interest expense; cash taxes; 
excluding equity-based compensation costs. 
5. Permanent capital vehicles include: our listed perpetual affiliates, BIP, 
BEP, and BBU and our permanent capital vehicle BPG.
6. Flagship Funds include current and future vintages of our infrastructure, 
transition, private equity, real estate and opportunistic credit flagship 
funds.
7. Return of Capital includes net capital returned to investors and capital 
raised but not yet fee-earning as of September 30.
8. After the separation of the Manager in 2022, Brookfield Corporation 
(BN) retained eligibility to earn carried interest on most existing long 
term funds. BAM is eligible to earn carried interest on certain existing 
funds and all vintages of long term funds after the separation. Currently, 
these funds include the flagship funds Brookfield Infrastructure Fund V, 
Brookfield Global Transition Fund I-II, Brookfield Strategic Real Estate 
Partners IV-V, Brookfield Capital Partners VI, Oaktree Opportunities 
Fund XII, select long term and perpetual funds and select Oaktree 
open-end and evergreen funds. Current gross realized carried interest 
expectations are illustrative only. Carried interest is a contractual 
arrangement whereby we receive a fixed percentage of investment 
gains generated within a private fund provided that the investors 
receive a predetermined minimum return. Carried interest is typically 
paid towards the end of the life of a fund after the capital has been 
returned to investors and may be subject to “claw back” until all 
investments have been monetized and minimum investment returns 
are sufficiently assured. This is referred to as realized carried interest.
9. Includes non-Brookfield share of Oaktree fee-related earnings.
10. References to growth in or future expectations for AUM, fundraising, 
fee-bearing capital, fee-related earnings, distributable earnings, fee 
revenues, annual generated carry, accumulated unrealized carry, 
realized carry, carry-eligible capital, gross carried interest and invested 
capital are for illustrative and informational purposes only and have 
been presented based on various assumptions and estimations made 
by management.
41

BROOKFIELD.COM
Endnotes continued
11. The target returns set forth herein are for illustrative and informational 
purposes only. Target gross returns are based on historical 
performance for similar investment strategies and the manager’s 
expectations regarding the returns that it will underwrite for the types of 
investment opportunities that it expects to be available for the 
fund.  There can be no assurance that the manager will be able to 
source investment opportunities that it can underwrite in line with the 
target gross returns, or that the underwritten returns for any of the 
fund’s investments will be achieved. Target gross returns do not reflect 
fund expenses, management fees or carried interest (or equivalent 
fees), which reduce an investor’s returns. Target net returns are 
prepared based on an illustrative model that takes into account these 
items, which includes assumptions regarding applicable management 
fees and carried interest (which reflect the highest management fee 
and carried interest rates expected to be charged to investors in the 
fund), fund expenses (which are estimated by the manager based on its 
experience in the fund and/or similar funds), the expected hold period 
of the fund’s investments, and other factors (but not the effects of any 
fund-level leverage). Due to various risks, uncertainties and changes 
(including changes in economic, operational, political or other 
circumstances), the actual performance of the fund could differ 
materially from the target returns set forth herein. In addition, industry 
experts may disagree with the assumptions used in presenting the 
target returns. No assurance, representation or warranty is made by any 
person that the target returns will be achieved, and undue reliance 
should not be put on them. Additional information about the 
assumptions used in determining the target returns and the factors that 
could cause actual results to differ materially from the target returns are 
available upon request. Prior performance is not indicative of future 
results and there can be no guarantee that the Fund will achieve the 
target returns or be able to avoid losses.
12. “Gross IRR” reflects performance before fund expenses, management 
fees, and carried interest (or equivalent fees), which will reduce an 
investor’s return. “Net IRR” is calculated on a fund level and not for any 
particular investor, and takes into account the average fund expenses, 
management fees, and carried interest (or equivalent fees), if any, 
allocated to or paid by investors (including fees allocated to or paid by 
Brookfield and its affiliates as a limited partner (either on an actual or 
notional basis) based on the applicable rate per the Fund's standard 
investor fee schedule), as well as the effects of leverage, if any, due to 
the temporary funding in respect of some of the investments through 
the use of the subscription secured credit facility incurred at the fund-
level. Since management fees and carried interest rates vary by 
investor, each particular investor would likely have a different net 
performance return than those shown here, and investors who do not 
qualify for discounted management fees and carried interest rates 
based on, as applicable, their commitment size or timing of 
commitment would likely experience a greater spread between gross 
and net performance than presented here. The calculation in respect of 
any particular set of economic terms will be provided upon request. 
Composite returns presented are based on funds with similar 
investment strategies (as described in endnotes  13-17) and are 
calculated by aggregating total cash flows of such funds, using the same 
information used to calculate the returns for each individual 
fund.  Performance figures exclude the effects of and returns from 
bridge financing provided by the fund. Prior performance is not 
indicative of future results and there can be no guarantee that the Fund 
will achieve comparable results or be able to avoid losses. The 
complete track record of each fund reflected in the composite returns 
will be provided upon request.
13. Private Equity figures reflect the target as a weighted average of 
committed capital and actual gross and net returns of Brookfield 
Capital Partners I through VI., rounded to the nearest whole number. 
14. Real Estate figures reflects the actual gross and net returns of 
Brookfield Strategic Real Estate Partners (“BSREP”) I through V, BSREP 
Europe, BSREP APAC, as well Real Estate Turnaround Investment 
Partners (“RETIP”) and Brookfield Real Estate Opportunistic Funds 
(“BREOF”) I and II, which were Brookfield’s previous real estate 
opportunistic vehicles. The target gross and net returns are based on a 
weighted average of (i) committed capital for BSREP I-V and (ii) the 
target fund sizes of BSREP Europe and BSREP APAC as those funds are 
still in their fundraising stage, but not the target return of the BREOF 
vehicles that was 18% net, nor the RETIP vehicles as those had no stated 
target return.  The target and actual returns shown herein are rounded 
to the nearest whole number.
15. Infrastructure figures reflect the target as a weighted average of 
committed capital and actual gross and net returns of Brookfield 
Infrastructure Funds I through V, including the Renewable Sidecar, 
rounded to the nearest whole number.
16. Renewable Power & Transition figures reflect the target as a weighted 
average of (i) the committed capital for BGTF I and (ii) the target fund 
size of BGTF II as that fund is still in its fundraising stage, and actual 
gross and net returns reflect Brookfield Global Transition Funds I and II, 
rounded to the nearest whole number.
17. Opportunistic Credit figures reflect the target as a weighted average of 
committed capital and actual gross and net returns of Oaktree 
Opportunities Funds, Special Credits Funds, and related separate 
accounts and co-invest vehicles.
18. 2025 fees include annualized BGTF I fees as of September 30, 2025, 
and annualized fees from BGTF II and CTF at their respective target 
fund sizes, which are currently fundraising.
19. Represents weighted average Gross IRR of assets sold across 
infrastructure and renewable power from July 1, 2024, through August 
6, 2025.
20. Institutional investors include those across Brookfield as of June 30, 
2025. Private wealth clients include BOWS North American private 
wealth clients. Annuity policies represent existing policies as of June 30, 
2025, written by Brookfield Wealth Solutions’ operating subsidiaries.
21. Deployments and monetizations represent gross asset value (including 
debt), including completed and in-process transactions from July 1, 
2024, through August 6, 2025.
22. Mature complementary strategies include those that are raising their 3rd 
or subsequent vintage. New complementary strategies include those 
that are raising their inaugural or 2nd vintage, as of September 30, 2025.
42