Source ID: PS-VD-911
Firm: Industry-wide (Mercer)
Title: Private Markets in Motion
Document Type: industry_report
Bias Tag: industry-report
Seed URL: https://www.mercer.com/insights/investments/alternative-investments/private-markets-in-motion/
Loaded URL: https://www.mercer.com/insights/investments/alternative-investments/private-markets-in-motion/
Contributor David Scopelliti Global Head of Private Equity and Private Credit

Contributor Tamsin Coleman Head of Private Debt, Europe, Mercer

Contributor Nicholas Kocur Head of Private Credit, United States

Contributor Scott Wilkinson Head of Private Markets, APAC

“Private Markets in Motion” is Mercer’s new thought leadership series showcasing private markets’ key trends and capital flows in a different asset class each quarter. We aim to advance the discussion on the future evolution of private markets, particularly in guiding the industry towards a more distinctive and consistent approach in service of well-defined outcomes for asset owners.

Our first report focuses on private debt, a timely contribution given the continuing growth of the private Debt market globally. This study compiles the views of 57 respondents worldwide with more than $2tn in assets under management (AUM), asking for their insights on the current private debt space 1 .

1. Managers expect continued growth in the sector, both in terms of GPs raising funds and LPs allocating to private debt.

Private debt firms remain positive on the outlook for growth in the private debt market, anticipating continued growth of both general partners (GPs) raising funds and limited partners (LPs) allocating to the sector.

Four-in-five (80%) private debt managers expect to see an increase in the number of GPs raising over the next 3-5 years, while just 14% expect to see a decline. The vast majority intend to play a role in this growth, with 77% of managers surveyed planning to launch a new private debt strategy themselves over the next 12 months.

2. Private debt managers expect to see loss rates increase, spreads widen and a drop in fees, indicative of a more challenging market environment.

More than half (56%) of respondents expect average loss rates to increase by between 10-50 basis points over the coming two years, while a further 9% expect loss rates to rise by more than 50 basis points.

40% of managers expect to see spreads increase slightly over the next 3-5 years, predicting increases of 25-75bps, while 2% predict an increase of more than 75bps.

At the same time, more than half (53%) of private debt managers expect to see fund-level fees fall in the next 2 years. Asked about their expectations for both management and performance fees, managers said they expect to see a slight decrease – equivalent to a drop of up to 25 basis points in annual management fees and between 0.4-2.5 percentage points in carried interest.

3. Rising competition is considered the most significant challenge facing asset managers in the private debt market, particularly among the largest asset managers.

4. As the market environment becomes increasingly uncertain, a significant proportion of asset managers believe financing risk is increasing year-on-year, leading lenders to push for enhanced protection from borrowers.

The majority (56%) of asset managers surveyed said they felt the conditions for payment-in-kind financing remained broadly in line with a year ago. However, a significant minority (42%) saw it as a riskier option.

Despite the concerns identified by managers, only 24% of respondents planned to tighten their terms around PIK financing, with 28% keeping terms the same and 48% placing them under review for the time being.

Global Head of Private Equity and Private Credit

Download report Private markets in motion Asset managers with over US$2 trillion in assets under management share insights on challenges and opportunities in private debt. Download report