Source ID: PS-VD-008
Firm: Apollo Global Management
Title: Apollo IR SEC Filings Page
Document Type: annual_report
Bias Tag: company-produced
Seed URL: https://ir.apollo.com/sec-filings
Loaded URL: https://ir.apollo.com/_assets/_9d229425011f8161e75a7d4ea62ed11d/apollo/sec/0001858681-26-000013/apo-20251231.htm
☒ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

☐ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)

Title of each class Trading Symbol(s) Name of each exchange on which registered

Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock APO New York Stock Exchange

6.75% Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock APO.PRA New York Stock Exchange

6.75% Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock

7.625% Fixed-Rate Resettable Junior Subordinated Notes due 2053 APOS New York Stock Exchange

7.625% Fixed-Rate Resettable Junior Subordinated Notes due 2053

Large accelerated filer x Accelerated filer ☐ Non-accelerated filer ☐ Smaller reporting company ☐ Emerging growth company ☐

Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 68

Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 71

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 131

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 140

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Item 8A. Unaudited Supplemental Presentation of Statements of Financial Condition 263

Unaudited Supplemental Presentation of Statements of Financial Condition

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 267

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 268

Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 269

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 269

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 269

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 269

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 270

AAA Apollo Aligned Alternatives Aggregator, L.P.

Apollo Aligned Alternatives Aggregator, L.P.

AAA Lux Apollo Aligned Alternatives Lux Aggregator, L.P.

Apollo Aligned Alternatives Lux Aggregator, L.P.

AAM Apollo Asset Management, Inc. (f/k/a Apollo Global Management, Inc. prior to the Mergers.)

Apollo Asset Management, Inc. (f/k/a Apollo Global Management, Inc. prior to the Mergers.)

AARe Athene Annuity Re Ltd., a Bermuda reinsurance subsidiary

Athene Annuity Re Ltd., a Bermuda reinsurance subsidiary

Accord+ Apollo Accord+ Fund, L.P., together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

Apollo Accord+ Fund, L.P., together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

Accord+ II Apollo Accord+ II Fund, L.P., together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

Apollo Accord+ II Fund, L.P., together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

Accord I Apollo Accord Master Fund, L.P., together with its feeder funds

Apollo Accord Master Fund, L.P., together with its feeder funds

Accord II Apollo Accord Master Fund II, L.P., together with its feeder funds

Apollo Accord Master Fund II, L.P., together with its feeder funds

Accord III Apollo Accord Master Fund III, L.P., together with its feeder funds

Apollo Accord Master Fund III, L.P., together with its feeder funds

Accord III B Apollo Accord Master Fund III B, L.P., together with its feeder funds

Apollo Accord Master Fund III B, L.P., together with its feeder funds

Accord IV Apollo Accord Fund IV, L.P., together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

Apollo Accord Fund IV, L.P., together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

Accord V Apollo Accord Fund V, L.P., together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

Apollo Accord Fund V, L.P., together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

Accord VI Apollo Accord Fund VI, L.P., together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

Apollo Accord Fund VI, L.P., together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

Accord VII Apollo Accord Fund VII, L.P., together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

Apollo Accord Fund VII, L.P., together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

Accord Funds Accord I, Accord II, Accord III, Accord III B, Accord IV, Accord V and Accord VI

Accord I, Accord II, Accord III, Accord III B, Accord IV, Accord V and Accord VI

ACRA 1 Athene Co-Invest Reinsurance Affiliate Holding Ltd., together with its subsidiaries

Athene Co-Invest Reinsurance Affiliate Holding Ltd., together with its subsidiaries

ACRA 2 Athene Co-Invest Reinsurance Affiliate Holding 2 Ltd., together with its subsidiaries

Athene Co-Invest Reinsurance Affiliate Holding 2 Ltd., together with its subsidiaries

ADIP I Apollo/Athene Dedicated Investment Program (A), L.P., together with its parallel funds, a series of funds managed by Apollo including third-party capital that, through ACRA 1, invests alongside Athene in certain investments

Apollo/Athene Dedicated Investment Program (A), L.P., together with its parallel funds, a series of funds managed by Apollo including third-party capital that, through ACRA 1, invests alongside Athene in certain investments

ADIP II Apollo/Athene Dedicated Investment Program II, L.P., a fund managed by Apollo including third-party capital that, through ACRA 2, invests alongside Athene in certain investments

Apollo/Athene Dedicated Investment Program II, L.P., a fund managed by Apollo including third-party capital that, through ACRA 2, invests alongside Athene in certain investments

Adjusted Net Income Shares Outstanding, or ANI Shares Outstanding Consists of total shares of common stock outstanding, RSUs that participate in dividends, and shares of common stock assumed to be issuable upon the conversion of the shares of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock

Adjusted Net Income Shares Outstanding, or ANI Shares Outstanding

Consists of total shares of common stock outstanding, RSUs that participate in dividends, and shares of common stock assumed to be issuable upon the conversion of the shares of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock

ADREF Apollo Diversified Real Estate Fund

AIOF I Apollo Infra Equity US Fund, L.P. and Apollo Infra Equity International Fund, L.P., including their feeder funds and alternative investment vehicles

Apollo Infra Equity US Fund, L.P. and Apollo Infra Equity International Fund, L.P., including their feeder funds and alternative investment vehicles

AIOF II Apollo Infrastructure Opportunities Fund II, L.P., together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

Apollo Infrastructure Opportunities Fund II, L.P., together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

AIOF III Apollo Infrastructure Opportunities Fund III, L.P., together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

Apollo Infrastructure Opportunities Fund III, L.P., together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

ALRe Athene Life Re Ltd., a Bermuda reinsurance subsidiary

Athene Life Re Ltd., a Bermuda reinsurance subsidiary

Alternative investments Alternative investments, including investment funds and certain VIEs, adjusted for reinsurance impacts and to include Athene's proportionate share of ACRA alternative investments based on its economic ownership

Alternative investments, including investment funds and certain VIEs, adjusted for reinsurance impacts and to include Athene's proportionate share of ACRA alternative investments based on its economic ownership

AMH Apollo Management Holdings, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, that is an indirect subsidiary of AGM

Apollo Management Holdings, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, that is an indirect subsidiary of AGM

ANRP I Apollo Natural Resources Partners, L.P., together with its alternative investment vehicles

Apollo Natural Resources Partners, L.P., together with its alternative investment vehicles

ANRP II Apollo Natural Resources Partners II, L.P., together with its alternative investment vehicles

Apollo Natural Resources Partners II, L.P., together with its alternative investment vehicles

ANRP III Apollo Natural Resources Partners III, L.P., together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

Apollo Natural Resources Partners III, L.P., together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

AOCI Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

AOG Units Units of the Apollo Operating Group

Apollo DAF The donor-advised fund established by Apollo

The donor-advised fund established by Apollo

Apollo funds, our funds and references to the funds we manage The funds (including the parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles of such funds), partnerships, accounts, including strategic investment accounts or “SIAs,” alternative asset companies and other entities for which subsidiaries of Apollo provide investment management or advisory services.

Apollo funds, our funds and references to the funds we manage

The funds (including the parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles of such funds), partnerships, accounts, including strategic investment accounts or “SIAs,” alternative asset companies and other entities for which subsidiaries of Apollo provide investment management or advisory services.

Apollo Operating Group (i) The entities through which we currently operate our asset management business and (ii) one or more entities formed for the purpose of, among other activities, holding certain of our gains or losses on our principal investments in the funds, which we refer to as our “principal investments.”

(i) The entities through which we currently operate our asset management business and (ii) one or more entities formed for the purpose of, among other activities, holding certain of our gains or losses on our principal investments in the funds, which we refer to as our “principal investments.”

Apollo TRA The tax receivable agreement entered into by and among APO Corp., the Former Managing Partners, the Contributing Partners, and other parties thereto

The tax receivable agreement entered into by and among APO Corp., the Former Managing Partners, the Contributing Partners, and other parties thereto

ARI Apollo Commercial Real Estate Finance, Inc.

Apollo Commercial Real Estate Finance, Inc.

ARIS Apollo Realty Income Solutions, Inc.

Assets Under Management, or AUM The assets of the funds, partnerships and accounts to which Apollo provides investment management, advisory, or certain other investment-related services, including, without limitation, capital that such funds, partnerships and accounts have the right to call from investors pursuant to capital commitments. Our AUM equals the sum of: 1. the NAV, plus used or available leverage and/or capital commitments, or gross assets plus capital commitments, of the credit and certain equity funds, partnerships and accounts for which we provide investment management or advisory services, other than certain CLOs, CDOs, and certain perpetual capital vehicles, which have a fee-generating basis other than the mark-to-market value of the underlying assets; for certain perpetual capital vehicles in credit, gross asset value plus available financing capacity; 2. the fair value of the investments of the equity and certain credit funds, partnerships and accounts Apollo manages or advises, plus the capital that such funds, partnerships and accounts are entitled to call from investors pursuant to capital commitments, plus portfolio level financings; 3. the gross asset value associated with the reinsurance investments of the portfolio company assets Apollo manages or advises; and 4. the fair value of any other assets that Apollo manages or advises for the funds, partnerships and accounts to which Apollo provides investment management, advisory, or certain other investment-related services, plus unused credit facilities, including capital commitments to such funds, partnerships and accounts for investments that may require pre-qualification or other conditions before investment plus any other capital commitments to such funds, partnerships and accounts available for investment that are not otherwise included in the clauses above. Apollo’s AUM measure includes Assets Under Management for which Apollo charges either nominal or zero fees. Apollo’s AUM measure also includes assets for which Apollo does not have investment discretion, including certain assets for which Apollo earns only investment-related service fees, rather than management or advisory fees. Apollo’s definition of AUM is not based on any definition of Assets Under Management contained in its governing documents or in any management agreements of the funds Apollo manages. Apollo considers multiple factors for determining what should be included in its definition of AUM. Such factors include but are not limited to (1) Apollo’s ability to influence the investment decisions for existing and available assets; (2) Apollo’s ability to generate income from the underlying assets in the funds it manages; and (3) the AUM measures that Apollo uses internally or believes are used by other investment managers. Given the differences in the investment strategies and structures among other alternative investment managers, Apollo’s calculation of AUM may differ from the calculations employed by other investment managers and, as a result, this measure may not be directly comparable to similar measures presented by other investment managers. Apollo’s calculation also differs from the manner in which its affiliates registered with the SEC report “Regulatory Assets Under Management” on Form ADV and Form PF in various ways. Apollo uses AUM, Gross capital deployment and Dry powder as performance measurements of its investment activities, as well as to monitor fund size in relation to professional resource and infrastructure needs.

The assets of the funds, partnerships and accounts to which Apollo provides investment management, advisory, or certain other investment-related services, including, without limitation, capital that such funds, partnerships and accounts have the right to call from investors pursuant to capital commitments. Our AUM equals the sum of: 1. the NAV, plus used or available leverage and/or capital commitments, or gross assets plus capital commitments, of the credit and certain equity funds, partnerships and accounts for which we provide investment management or advisory services, other than certain CLOs, CDOs, and certain perpetual capital vehicles, which have a fee-generating basis other than the mark-to-market value of the underlying assets; for certain perpetual capital vehicles in credit, gross asset value plus available financing capacity; 2. the fair value of the investments of the equity and certain credit funds, partnerships and accounts Apollo manages or advises, plus the capital that such funds, partnerships and accounts are entitled to call from investors pursuant to capital commitments, plus portfolio level financings; 3. the gross asset value associated with the reinsurance investments of the portfolio company assets Apollo manages or advises; and 4. the fair value of any other assets that Apollo manages or advises for the funds, partnerships and accounts to which Apollo provides investment management, advisory, or certain other investment-related services, plus unused credit facilities, including capital commitments to such funds, partnerships and accounts for investments that may require pre-qualification or other conditions before investment plus any other capital commitments to such funds, partnerships and accounts available for investment that are not otherwise included in the clauses above. Apollo’s AUM measure includes Assets Under Management for which Apollo charges either nominal or zero fees. Apollo’s AUM measure also includes assets for which Apollo does not have investment discretion, including certain assets for which Apollo earns only investment-related service fees, rather than management or advisory fees. Apollo’s definition of AUM is not based on any definition of Assets Under Management contained in its governing documents or in any management agreements of the funds Apollo manages. Apollo considers multiple factors for determining what should be included in its definition of AUM. Such factors include but are not limited to (1) Apollo’s ability to influence the investment decisions for existing and available assets; (2) Apollo’s ability to generate income from the underlying assets in the funds it manages; and (3) the AUM measures that Apollo uses internally or believes are used by other investment managers. Given the differences in the investment strategies and structures among other alternative investment managers, Apollo’s calculation of AUM may differ from the calculations employed by other investment managers and, as a result, this measure may not be directly comparable to similar measures presented by other investment managers. Apollo’s calculation also differs from the manner in which its affiliates registered with the SEC report “Regulatory Assets Under Management” on Form ADV and Form PF in various ways. Apollo uses AUM, Gross capital deployment and Dry powder as performance measurements of its investment activities, as well as to monitor fund size in relation to professional resource and infrastructure needs.

Athene Athene Holding Ltd. (“Athene Holding” or “AHL”, together with its subsidiaries, “Athene”), a leading financial services company specializing in retirement services that issues, reinsures and acquires retirement savings products designed for the increasing number of individuals and institutions seeking to fund retirement needs, and to which Apollo, through its consolidated subsidiary ISG, provides asset management and advisory services.

Athene Holding Ltd. (“Athene Holding” or “AHL”, together with its subsidiaries, “Athene”), a leading financial services company specializing in retirement services that issues, reinsures and acquires retirement savings products designed for the increasing number of individuals and institutions seeking to fund retirement needs, and to which Apollo, through its consolidated subsidiary ISG, provides asset management and advisory services.

Athora Athora Holding, Ltd. (“Athora Holding”, together with its subsidiaries, “Athora”), a strategic liabilities platform that acquires or reinsures blocks of insurance business in the German and broader European life insurance market (collectively, the “Athora Accounts”). Apollo, through ISGI, provides investment advisory services to Athora. Athora Non-Sub-Advised Assets includes the Athora assets which are managed by Apollo but not sub-advised by Apollo nor invested in Apollo funds or investment vehicles. Athora Sub-Advised includes assets which the Company explicitly sub-advises as well as those assets in the Athora Accounts which are invested directly in funds and investment vehicles Apollo manages.

Athora Holding, Ltd. (“Athora Holding”, together with its subsidiaries, “Athora”), a strategic liabilities platform that acquires or reinsures blocks of insurance business in the German and broader European life insurance market (collectively, the “Athora Accounts”). Apollo, through ISGI, provides investment advisory services to Athora. Athora Non-Sub-Advised Assets includes the Athora assets which are managed by Apollo but not sub-advised by Apollo nor invested in Apollo funds or investment vehicles. Athora Sub-Advised includes assets which the Company explicitly sub-advises as well as those assets in the Athora Accounts which are invested directly in funds and investment vehicles Apollo manages.

Atlas An equity investment of AAA and refers to certain subsidiaries of Atlas Securitized Products Holdings LP

An equity investment of AAA and refers to certain subsidiaries of Atlas Securitized Products Holdings LP

AUM with Future Management Fee Potential The committed uninvested capital portion of total AUM not currently earning management fees. The amount depends on the specific terms and conditions of each fund.

AUM with Future Management Fee Potential

The committed uninvested capital portion of total AUM not currently earning management fees. The amount depends on the specific terms and conditions of each fund.

Bermuda RBC The risk-based capital ratio of Athene’s non-U.S. reinsurance subsidiaries calculated using Bermuda Capital and applying NAIC risk-based capital factors on an aggregate basis, excluding U.S. subsidiaries which are included within Athene’s U.S. RBC Ratio.

The risk-based capital ratio of Athene’s non-U.S. reinsurance subsidiaries calculated using Bermuda Capital and applying NAIC risk-based capital factors on an aggregate basis, excluding U.S. subsidiaries which are included within Athene’s U.S. RBC Ratio.

Bridge Bridge Investment Group Holdings Inc.

Bridge funds Funds, vehicles and accounts managed by subsidiaries of Bridge

Funds, vehicles and accounts managed by subsidiaries of Bridge

Bridge TRA The tax receivable agreement with certain equity holders of Bridge

The tax receivable agreement with certain equity holders of Bridge

Capital solutions fees and other, net Primarily includes transaction fees earned by Apollo Capital Solutions (“ACS”) related to underwriting, structuring, arrangement and placement of debt and equity securities, and syndication for funds managed by Apollo, portfolio companies of funds managed by Apollo, and third parties. Capital solutions fees and other, net also includes advisory fees for the ongoing monitoring of portfolio operations, directors' fees, as well as fees and earnings related to property management activities. These fees also include certain offsetting amounts, including reductions in management fees related to a percentage of these fees recognized (“management fee offset”), and other additional revenue sharing arrangements, including with certain subsidiaries and other affiliates.

Primarily includes transaction fees earned by Apollo Capital Solutions (“ACS”) related to underwriting, structuring, arrangement and placement of debt and equity securities, and syndication for funds managed by Apollo, portfolio companies of funds managed by Apollo, and third parties. Capital solutions fees and other, net also includes advisory fees for the ongoing monitoring of portfolio operations, directors' fees, as well as fees and earnings related to property management activities. These fees also include certain offsetting amounts, including reductions in management fees related to a percentage of these fees recognized (“management fee offset”), and other additional revenue sharing arrangements, including with certain subsidiaries and other affiliates.

Class A shares Class A common stock, $0.00001 par value per share, of AAM prior to the Mergers.

Class A common stock, $0.00001 par value per share, of AAM prior to the Mergers.

CMBS Commercial mortgage-backed securities

Contributing Partners Partners and their related parties (other than Messrs. Leon Black, Joshua Harris and Marc Rowan, our co-founders) who indirectly beneficially owned AOG units.

Partners and their related parties (other than Messrs. Leon Black, Joshua Harris and Marc Rowan, our co-founders) who indirectly beneficially owned AOG units.

Consolidated RBC The consolidated risk-based capital ratio of Athene’s non-U.S. reinsurance and U.S. insurance subsidiaries calculated by aggregating U.S. RBC and Bermuda RBC, with immaterial adjustments for net assets at the holding company.

The consolidated risk-based capital ratio of Athene’s non-U.S. reinsurance and U.S. insurance subsidiaries calculated by aggregating U.S. RBC and Bermuda RBC, with immaterial adjustments for net assets at the holding company.

Cost of funds Cost of funds includes liability costs related to cost of crediting on deferred annuities, including, with respect to Athene's indexed annuities, option costs, and institutional costs related to institutional products, as well as other liability costs, but does not include the proportionate share of the ACRA cost of funds associated with the non-controlling interests. Other liability costs include DAC, DSI and VOBA amortization, certain market risk benefit costs, the cost of liabilities on products other than deferred annuities and institutional products, premiums, product charges, excluding market value adjustments, and certain other revenues. Athene includes the costs related to business added through assumed reinsurance transactions but excludes the costs on business related to ceded reinsurance transactions. Cost of funds is computed as the total liability costs divided by the average net invested assets for the relevant period, presented on an annualized basis for interim periods.

Cost of funds includes liability costs related to cost of crediting on deferred annuities, including, with respect to Athene's indexed annuities, option costs, and institutional costs related to institutional products, as well as other liability costs, but does not include the proportionate share of the ACRA cost of funds associated with the non-controlling interests. Other liability costs include DAC, DSI and VOBA amortization, certain market risk benefit costs, the cost of liabilities on products other than deferred annuities and institutional products, premiums, product charges, excluding market value adjustments, and certain other revenues. Athene includes the costs related to business added through assumed reinsurance transactions but excludes the costs on business related to ceded reinsurance transactions. Cost of funds is computed as the total liability costs divided by the average net invested assets for the relevant period, presented on an annualized basis for interim periods.

Credit Strategies Apollo Credit Strategies Master Fund Ltd., together with its feeder funds

Apollo Credit Strategies Master Fund Ltd., together with its feeder funds

Deferred annuities Fixed indexed annuities, annual reset annuities, multi-year guaranteed annuities and registered index-linked annuities

Fixed indexed annuities, annual reset annuities, multi-year guaranteed annuities and registered index-linked annuities

Dry Powder The amount of capital available for investment or reinvestment subject to the provisions of the applicable limited partnership agreements or other governing agreements of the funds, partnerships and accounts we manage. Dry powder excludes uncalled commitments which can only be called for fund fees and expenses and commitments from perpetual capital vehicles.

The amount of capital available for investment or reinvestment subject to the provisions of the applicable limited partnership agreements or other governing agreements of the funds, partnerships and accounts we manage. Dry powder excludes uncalled commitments which can only be called for fund fees and expenses and commitments from perpetual capital vehicles.

EPF Funds Apollo European Principal Finance Fund, L.P., Apollo European Principal Finance Fund II (Dollar A), L.P., EPF III, and EPF IV, together with their parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

Apollo European Principal Finance Fund, L.P., Apollo European Principal Finance Fund II (Dollar A), L.P., EPF III, and EPF IV, together with their parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

EPF III Apollo European Principal Finance Fund III (Dollar A), L.P., together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

Apollo European Principal Finance Fund III (Dollar A), L.P., together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

EPF IV Apollo European Principal Finance Fund IV (Dollar A), L.P., together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

Apollo European Principal Finance Fund IV (Dollar A), L.P., together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

Equity Plan Refers collectively to the Company’s 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan and the Company’s 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan for Estate Planning Vehicles.

Refers collectively to the Company’s 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan and the Company’s 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan for Estate Planning Vehicles.

FABR Funding agreement backed repurchase agreement

Funding agreement backed repurchase agreement

FASB Financial Accounting Standards Board

FCI Funds Financial Credit Investment I, L.P., Financial Credit Investment II, L.P., together with its feeder funds, Financial Credit Investment Fund III L.P., and Financial Credit Investment IV, L.P., together with its feeder funds

Financial Credit Investment I, L.P., Financial Credit Investment II, L.P., together with its feeder funds, Financial Credit Investment Fund III L.P., and Financial Credit Investment IV, L.P., together with its feeder funds

Fee-Generating AUM Fee-Generating AUM consists of assets of the funds, partnerships and accounts to which we provide investment management, advisory, or certain other investment-related services and on which we earn management fees, monitoring fees or other investment-related fees pursuant to management or other fee agreements on a basis that varies among the Apollo funds, partnerships and accounts. Management fees are normally based on “net asset value,” “gross assets,” “adjusted par asset value,” “adjusted cost of all unrealized portfolio investments,” “capital commitments,” “adjusted assets,” “stockholders’ equity,” “invested capital” or “capital contributions,” each as defined in the applicable management agreement. Monitoring fees, also referred to as advisory fees, with respect to the structured portfolio company investments of the funds, partnerships and accounts we manage or advise, are generally based on the total value of such structured portfolio company investments, which normally includes leverage, less any portion of such total value that is already considered in Fee-Generating AUM.

Fee-Generating AUM consists of assets of the funds, partnerships and accounts to which we provide investment management, advisory, or certain other investment-related services and on which we earn management fees, monitoring fees or other investment-related fees pursuant to management or other fee agreements on a basis that varies among the Apollo funds, partnerships and accounts. Management fees are normally based on “net asset value,” “gross assets,” “adjusted par asset value,” “adjusted cost of all unrealized portfolio investments,” “capital commitments,” “adjusted assets,” “stockholders’ equity,” “invested capital” or “capital contributions,” each as defined in the applicable management agreement. Monitoring fees, also referred to as advisory fees, with respect to the structured portfolio company investments of the funds, partnerships and accounts we manage or advise, are generally based on the total value of such structured portfolio company investments, which normally includes leverage, less any portion of such total value that is already considered in Fee-Generating AUM.

Fee Related Earnings, or FRE Component of Segment Income that is used to assess the performance of the Asset Management segment. FRE is the sum of (i) management fees, (ii) capital solutions and other related fees, (iii) fee-related performance fees from indefinite term vehicles, that are measured and received on a recurring basis and not dependent on realization events of the underlying investments, excluding performance fees from Athene and performance fees from origination platforms dependent on capital appreciation, and (iv) other income, net, less (a) fee-related compensation, excluding equity-based compensation, (b) non-compensation expenses incurred in the normal course of business, (c) placement fees and (d) non-controlling interests in the management companies of certain funds the Company manages.

Component of Segment Income that is used to assess the performance of the Asset Management segment. FRE is the sum of (i) management fees, (ii) capital solutions and other related fees, (iii) fee-related performance fees from indefinite term vehicles, that are measured and received on a recurring basis and not dependent on realization events of the underlying investments, excluding performance fees from Athene and performance fees from origination platforms dependent on capital appreciation, and (iv) other income, net, less (a) fee-related compensation, excluding equity-based compensation, (b) non-compensation expenses incurred in the normal course of business, (c) placement fees and (d) non-controlling interests in the management companies of certain funds the Company manages.

FIA Fixed indexed annuity, which is an insurance contract that earns interest at a crediting rate based on a specified index on a tax-deferred basis

Fixed indexed annuity, which is an insurance contract that earns interest at a crediting rate based on a specified index on a tax-deferred basis

Fixed annuities FIAs together with fixed rate annuities

Former Managing Partners Messrs. Leon Black, Joshua Harris and Marc Rowan collectively and, when used in reference to holdings of interests in Apollo or AP Professional Holdings, L.P. includes certain related parties of such individuals

Messrs. Leon Black, Joshua Harris and Marc Rowan collectively and, when used in reference to holdings of interests in Apollo or AP Professional Holdings, L.P. includes certain related parties of such individuals

Freedom Parent Holdings Freedom Parent Holdings, L.P.

Gross capital deployment The gross capital that has been invested by the funds and accounts we manage during the relevant period, but excludes certain investment activities primarily related to hedging and cash management functions at the firm. Gross capital deployment is not reduced or netted down by sales or refinancings, and takes into account leverage used by the funds and accounts we manage in gaining exposure to the various investments that they have made.

The gross capital that has been invested by the funds and accounts we manage during the relevant period, but excludes certain investment activities primarily related to hedging and cash management functions at the firm. Gross capital deployment is not reduced or netted down by sales or refinancings, and takes into account leverage used by the funds and accounts we manage in gaining exposure to the various investments that they have made.

GLWB Guaranteed lifetime withdrawal benefit

Gross IRR of accord series, ADIP funds and the European principal finance funds The annualized return of a fund based on the actual timing of all cumulative fund cash flows before management fees, performance fees allocated to the general partner and certain other expenses. Calculations may include certain investors that do not pay fees. The terminal value is the net asset value as of the reporting date. Non-U.S. dollar denominated (“USD”) fund cash flows and residual values are converted to USD using the spot rate as of the reporting date. In addition, gross IRRs at the fund level will differ from those at the individual investor level as a result of, among other factors, timing of investor-level inflows and outflows. Gross IRR does not represent the return to any fund investor.

Gross IRR of accord series, ADIP funds and the European principal finance funds

The annualized return of a fund based on the actual timing of all cumulative fund cash flows before management fees, performance fees allocated to the general partner and certain other expenses. Calculations may include certain investors that do not pay fees. The terminal value is the net asset value as of the reporting date. Non-U.S. dollar denominated (“USD”) fund cash flows and residual values are converted to USD using the spot rate as of the reporting date. In addition, gross IRRs at the fund level will differ from those at the individual investor level as a result of, among other factors, timing of investor-level inflows and outflows. Gross IRR does not represent the return to any fund investor.

Gross IRR of a traditional private equity or hybrid value fund The cumulative investment-related cash flows (i) for a given investment for the fund or funds which made such investment, and (ii) for a given fund, in the relevant fund itself (and not any one investor in the fund), in each case, on the basis of the actual timing of investment inflows and outflows (for unrealized investments assuming disposition on December 31, 2025 or other date specified) aggregated on a gross basis quarterly, and the return is annualized and compounded before management fees, performance fees and certain other expenses (including interest incurred by the fund itself) and measures the returns on the fund’s investments as a whole without regard to whether all of the returns would, if distributed, be payable to the fund’s investors. In addition, gross IRRs at the fund level will differ from those at the individual investor level as a result of, among other factors, timing of investor-level inflows and outflows. Gross IRR does not represent the return to any fund investor.

Gross IRR of a traditional private equity or hybrid value fund

The cumulative investment-related cash flows (i) for a given investment for the fund or funds which made such investment, and (ii) for a given fund, in the relevant fund itself (and not any one investor in the fund), in each case, on the basis of the actual timing of investment inflows and outflows (for unrealized investments assuming disposition on December 31, 2025 or other date specified) aggregated on a gross basis quarterly, and the return is annualized and compounded before management fees, performance fees and certain other expenses (including interest incurred by the fund itself) and measures the returns on the fund’s investments as a whole without regard to whether all of the returns would, if distributed, be payable to the fund’s investors. In addition, gross IRRs at the fund level will differ from those at the individual investor level as a result of, among other factors, timing of investor-level inflows and outflows. Gross IRR does not represent the return to any fund investor.

Gross IRR of infrastructure funds The cumulative investment-related cash flows in the fund itself (and not any one investor in the fund), on the basis of the actual timing of cash inflows and outflows (for unrealized investments assuming disposition on December 31, 2025 or other date specified) starting on the date that each investment closes, and the return is annualized and compounded before management fees, performance fees, and certain other expenses (including interest incurred by the fund itself) and measures the returns on the fund’s investments as a whole without regard to whether all of the returns would, if distributed, be payable to the fund’s investors. Non-USD fund cash flows and residual values are converted to USD using the spot rate as of the reporting date. In addition, gross IRRs at the fund level will differ from those at the individual investor level as a result of, among other factors, timing of investor-level inflows and outflows. Gross IRR does not represent the return to any fund investor.

The cumulative investment-related cash flows in the fund itself (and not any one investor in the fund), on the basis of the actual timing of cash inflows and outflows (for unrealized investments assuming disposition on December 31, 2025 or other date specified) starting on the date that each investment closes, and the return is annualized and compounded before management fees, performance fees, and certain other expenses (including interest incurred by the fund itself) and measures the returns on the fund’s investments as a whole without regard to whether all of the returns would, if distributed, be payable to the fund’s investors. Non-USD fund cash flows and residual values are converted to USD using the spot rate as of the reporting date. In addition, gross IRRs at the fund level will differ from those at the individual investor level as a result of, among other factors, timing of investor-level inflows and outflows. Gross IRR does not represent the return to any fund investor.

HoldCo Apollo Global Management, Inc. (f/k/a Tango Holdings, Inc.)

Apollo Global Management, Inc. (f/k/a Tango Holdings, Inc.)

HVF I Apollo Hybrid Value Fund, L.P., together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

Apollo Hybrid Value Fund, L.P., together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

HVF II Apollo Hybrid Value Fund II, L.P., together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

Apollo Hybrid Value Fund II, L.P., together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

HVF III Apollo Hybrid Value Fund III, L.P., together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

Apollo Hybrid Value Fund III, L.P., together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles

Inflows (i) At the individual strategy level, subscriptions, commitments, and other increases in available capital, such as acquisitions or leverage, net of inter-strategy transfers, and (ii) on an aggregate basis, the sum of inflows across the credit and equity investing strategies.

(i) At the individual strategy level, subscriptions, commitments, and other increases in available capital, such as acquisitions or leverage, net of inter-strategy transfers, and (ii) on an aggregate basis, the sum of inflows across the credit and equity investing strategies.

ISGI Refers collectively to Apollo Asset Management Europe LLP, a subsidiary of AAM (“AAME”) and Apollo Asset Management PC LLP, a wholly-owned subsidiary of AAME (“AAME PC”)

Refers collectively to Apollo Asset Management Europe LLP, a subsidiary of AAM (“AAME”) and Apollo Asset Management PC LLP, a wholly-owned subsidiary of AAME (“AAME PC”)

Management Fee Offset Under the terms of the limited partnership agreements for certain funds, the management fee payable by the funds may be subject to a reduction based on a certain percentage of such advisory and transaction fees, net of applicable broken deal costs.

Under the terms of the limited partnership agreements for certain funds, the management fee payable by the funds may be subject to a reduction based on a certain percentage of such advisory and transaction fees, net of applicable broken deal costs.

Market risk benefits Guaranteed lifetime withdrawal benefits and guaranteed minimum death benefits

Guaranteed lifetime withdrawal benefits and guaranteed minimum death benefits

Mergers Completion of the previously announced merger transactions pursuant to the Merger Agreement

Completion of the previously announced merger transactions pursuant to the Merger Agreement

Merger Agreement The Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of March 8, 2021 by and among AAM, AGM, AHL, Blue Merger Sub, Ltd., a Bermuda exempted company, and Green Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation.

The Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of March 8, 2021 by and among AAM, AGM, AHL, Blue Merger Sub, Ltd., a Bermuda exempted company, and Green Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation.

MFIC MidCap Financial Investment Corporation (f/k/a Apollo Investment Corporation or “AINV”)

MidCap Financial Investment Corporation (f/k/a Apollo Investment Corporation or “AINV”)

MidCap FinCo MidCap FinCo LLC, together with its subsidiaries

MidCap FinCo LLC, together with its subsidiaries

NAIC National Association of Insurance Commissioners

National Association of Insurance Commissioners

Net invested assets Represent the investments that directly back Athene's net reserve liabilities as well as surplus assets. Net invested assets include Athene’s (a) total investments on the consolidated statements of financial condition, with available-for-sale securities, trading securities and mortgage loans at cost or amortized cost, excluding derivatives, (b) cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash, (c) investments in related parties, (d) accrued investment income, (e) VIE and VOE assets, liabilities and non-controlling interest adjustments, (f) net investment payables and receivables, (g) policy loans ceded (which offset the direct policy loans in total investments) and (h) an adjustment for the allowance for credit losses. Net invested assets exclude the derivative collateral offsetting the related cash positions. Athene includes the investments supporting assumed funds withheld and modco agreements and excludes the investments related to ceded reinsurance transactions in order to match the assets with the income received. Net invested assets include Athene’s economic ownership of ACRA investments but do not include the investments associated with the non-controlling interests.

Represent the investments that directly back Athene's net reserve liabilities as well as surplus assets. Net invested assets include Athene’s (a) total investments on the consolidated statements of financial condition, with available-for-sale securities, trading securities and mortgage loans at cost or amortized cost, excluding derivatives, (b) cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash, (c) investments in related parties, (d) accrued investment income, (e) VIE and VOE assets, liabilities and non-controlling interest adjustments, (f) net investment payables and receivables, (g) policy loans ceded (which offset the direct policy loans in total investments) and (h) an adjustment for the allowance for credit losses. Net invested assets exclude the derivative collateral offsetting the related cash positions. Athene includes the investments supporting assumed funds withheld and modco agreements and excludes the investments related to ceded reinsurance transactions in order to match the assets with the income received. Net invested assets include Athene’s economic ownership of ACRA investments but do not include the investments associated with the non-controlling interests.

Net investment earned rate Computed as income from Athene’s net invested assets, excluding the proportionate share of the ACRA net investment income associated with the non-controlling interests, divided by the average net invested assets for the relevant period, presented on an annualized basis for interim periods.

Computed as income from Athene’s net invested assets, excluding the proportionate share of the ACRA net investment income associated with the non-controlling interests, divided by the average net invested assets for the relevant period, presented on an annualized basis for interim periods.

Net investment spread Net investment spread measures Athene’s investment performance plus its strategic capital management fees less its total cost of funds, presented on an annualized basis for interim periods.

Net investment spread measures Athene’s investment performance plus its strategic capital management fees less its total cost of funds, presented on an annualized basis for interim periods.

Net IRR of accord series, ADIP funds and the European principal finance funds The annualized return of a fund after management fees, performance fees allocated to the general partner and certain other expenses, calculated on investors that pay such fees. The terminal value is the net asset value as of the reporting date. Non-USD fund cash flows and residual values are converted to USD using the spot rate as of the reporting date. In addition, net IRR at the fund level will differ from that at the individual investor level as a result of, among other factors, timing of investor-level inflows and outflows. Net IRR does not represent the return to any fund investor.

Net IRR of accord series, ADIP funds and the European principal finance funds

The annualized return of a fund after management fees, performance fees allocated to the general partner and certain other expenses, calculated on investors that pay such fees. The terminal value is the net asset value as of the reporting date. Non-USD fund cash flows and residual values are converted to USD using the spot rate as of the reporting date. In addition, net IRR at the fund level will differ from that at the individual investor level as a result of, among other factors, timing of investor-level inflows and outflows. Net IRR does not represent the return to any fund investor.

Net IRR of a traditional private equity or the hybrid value funds The gross IRR applicable to a fund, including returns for related parties which may not pay fees or performance fees, net of management fees, certain expenses (including interest incurred or earned by the fund itself) and realized performance fees all offset to the extent of interest income, and measures returns at the fund level on amounts that, if distributed, would be paid to investors of the fund. The timing of cash flows applicable to investments, management fees and certain expenses, may be adjusted for the usage of a fund’s subscription facility. To the extent that a fund exceeds all requirements detailed within the applicable fund agreement, the estimated unrealized value is adjusted such that a percentage of up to 20.0% of the unrealized gain is allocated to the general partner of such fund, thereby reducing the balance attributable to fund investors. In addition, net IRR at the fund level will differ from that at the individual investor level as a result of, among other factors, timing of investor-level inflows and outflows. Net IRR does not represent the return to any fund investor.

Net IRR of a traditional private equity or the hybrid value funds

The gross IRR applicable to a fund, including returns for related parties which may not pay fees or performance fees, net of management fees, certain expenses (including interest incurred or earned by the fund itself) and realized performance fees all offset to the extent of interest income, and measures returns at the fund level on amounts that, if distributed, would be paid to investors of the fund. The timing of cash flows applicable to investments, management fees and certain expenses, may be adjusted for the usage of a fund’s subscription facility. To the extent that a fund exceeds all requirements detailed within the applicable fund agreement, the estimated unrealized value is adjusted such that a percentage of up to 20.0% of the unrealized gain is allocated to the general partner of such fund, thereby reducing the balance attributable to fund investors. In addition, net IRR at the fund level will differ from that at the individual investor level as a result of, among other factors, timing of investor-level inflows and outflows. Net IRR does not represent the return to any fund investor.

Net IRR of infrastructure funds The cumulative cash flows in a fund (and not any one investor in the fund), on the basis of the actual timing of cash inflows received from and outflows paid to investors of the fund (assuming the ending net asset value as of the reporting date or other date specified is paid to investors), excluding certain non-fee and non-performance fee bearing parties, and the return is annualized and compounded after management fees, performance fees, and certain other expenses (including interest incurred by the fund itself) and measures the returns to investors of the fund as a whole. Non-USD fund cash flows and residual values are converted to USD using the spot rate as of the reporting date. In addition, net IRR at the fund level will differ from that at the individual investor level as a result of, among other factors, timing of investor-level inflows and outflows. Net IRR does not represent the return to any fund investor.

The cumulative cash flows in a fund (and not any one investor in the fund), on the basis of the actual timing of cash inflows received from and outflows paid to investors of the fund (assuming the ending net asset value as of the reporting date or other date specified is paid to investors), excluding certain non-fee and non-performance fee bearing parties, and the return is annualized and compounded after management fees, performance fees, and certain other expenses (including interest incurred by the fund itself) and measures the returns to investors of the fund as a whole. Non-USD fund cash flows and residual values are converted to USD using the spot rate as of the reporting date. In addition, net IRR at the fund level will differ from that at the individual investor level as a result of, among other factors, timing of investor-level inflows and outflows. Net IRR does not represent the return to any fund investor.

Net reserve liabilities Represent Athene's policyholder and institutional liability obligations net of reinsurance and used to analyze the costs of its liabilities. Net reserve liabilities include Athene’s (a) interest sensitive contract liabilities, (b) future policy benefits, (c) net market risk benefits, (d) long-term repurchase obligations, (e) dividends payable to policyholders and (f) other policy claims and benefits, offset by reinsurance recoverable, excluding policy loans ceded. Net reserve liabilities include Athene’s economic ownership of ACRA reserve liabilities but do not include the reserve liabilities associated with the non-controlling interests. Net reserve liabilities are net of the ceded liabilities to third-party reinsurers as the costs of the liabilities are passed to such reinsurers and, therefore, Athene has no net economic exposure to such liabilities, assuming its reinsurance counterparties perform under the agreements. Net reserve liabilities include the underlying liabilities assumed through modco reinsurance agreements in order to match the liabilities with the expenses incurred.

Represent Athene's policyholder and institutional liability obligations net of reinsurance and used to analyze the costs of its liabilities. Net reserve liabilities include Athene’s (a) interest sensitive contract liabilities, (b) future policy benefits, (c) net market risk benefits, (d) long-term repurchase obligations, (e) dividends payable to policyholders and (f) other policy claims and benefits, offset by reinsurance recoverable, excluding policy loans ceded. Net reserve liabilities include Athene’s economic ownership of ACRA reserve liabilities but do not include the reserve liabilities associated with the non-controlling interests. Net reserve liabilities are net of the ceded liabilities to third-party reinsurers as the costs of the liabilities are passed to such reinsurers and, therefore, Athene has no net economic exposure to such liabilities, assuming its reinsurance counterparties perform under the agreements. Net reserve liabilities include the underlying liabilities assumed through modco reinsurance agreements in order to match the liabilities with the expenses incurred.

Non-Fee-Generating AUM AUM that does not produce management fees or monitoring fees. This measure generally includes the following: (i) fair value above invested capital for those funds that earn management fees based on invested capital; (ii) net asset values related to general partner and co-investment interests; (iii) unused credit facilities; (iv) available commitments on those funds that generate management fees on invested capital; (v) structured portfolio company investments that do not generate monitoring fees; and (vi) the difference between gross asset and net asset value for those funds that earn management fees based on net asset value.

AUM that does not produce management fees or monitoring fees. This measure generally includes the following: (i) fair value above invested capital for those funds that earn management fees based on invested capital; (ii) net asset values related to general partner and co-investment interests; (iii) unused credit facilities; (iv) available commitments on those funds that generate management fees on invested capital; (v) structured portfolio company investments that do not generate monitoring fees; and (vi) the difference between gross asset and net asset value for those funds that earn management fees based on net asset value.

NYC UBT New York City Unincorporated Business Tax

New York City Unincorporated Business Tax

Origination Represents (i) capital that has been invested in new equity, debt or debt-like investments by Apollo's equity and credit strategies (whether purchased by funds and accounts managed by Apollo, or syndicated to third parties) where Apollo or one of Apollo's origination platforms has sourced, negotiated, or significantly affected the commercial terms of the investment; (ii) new capital pools formed by debt issuances, including CLOs; and (iii) net purchases of certain assets by the funds and accounts we manage that we consider to be private, illiquid, and hard to access assets and which the funds and accounts otherwise may not be able to meaningfully access. Origination generally excludes any issuance of debt or debt-like investments by the portfolio companies of the funds we manage.

Represents (i) capital that has been invested in new equity, debt or debt-like investments by Apollo's equity and credit strategies (whether purchased by funds and accounts managed by Apollo, or syndicated to third parties) where Apollo or one of Apollo's origination platforms has sourced, negotiated, or significantly affected the commercial terms of the investment; (ii) new capital pools formed by debt issuances, including CLOs; and (iii) net purchases of certain assets by the funds and accounts we manage that we consider to be private, illiquid, and hard to access assets and which the funds and accounts otherwise may not be able to meaningfully access. Origination generally excludes any issuance of debt or debt-like investments by the portfolio companies of the funds we manage.

Other operating expenses within the Principal Investing segment Expenses incurred in the normal course of business and includes allocations of non-compensation expenses related to managing the business.

Other operating expenses within the Principal Investing segment

Expenses incurred in the normal course of business and includes allocations of non-compensation expenses related to managing the business.

Other operating expenses within the Retirement Services segment Expenses incurred in the normal course of business inclusive of compensation and non-compensation expenses, excluding the proportionate share of the ACRA operating expenses associated with the non-controlling interests.

Other operating expenses within the Retirement Services segment

Expenses incurred in the normal course of business inclusive of compensation and non-compensation expenses, excluding the proportionate share of the ACRA operating expenses associated with the non-controlling interests.

Payout annuities Annuities with a current cash payment component, which consist primarily of single premium immediate annuities, supplemental contracts and structured settlements.

Annuities with a current cash payment component, which consist primarily of single premium immediate annuities, supplemental contracts and structured settlements.

PCD Purchased Credit Deteriorated Investments

Purchased Credit Deteriorated Investments

Performance allocations, Performance fees, Performance revenues, Incentive fees and Incentive income The interests granted to Apollo by a fund managed by Apollo that entitle Apollo to receive allocations, distributions or fees which are based on the performance of such fund or its underlying investments.

Performance allocations, Performance fees, Performance revenues, Incentive fees and Incentive income

The interests granted to Apollo by a fund managed by Apollo that entitle Apollo to receive allocations, distributions or fees which are based on the performance of such fund or its underlying investments.

Performance Fee-Eligible AUM AUM that may eventually produce performance fees. All funds for which we are entitled to receive a performance fee allocation or incentive fee are included in Performance Fee-Eligible AUM, which consists of the following: (i) “Performance Fee-Generating AUM”, which refers to invested capital of the funds, partnerships and accounts we manage, advise, or to which we provide certain other investment-related services, that is currently above its hurdle rate or preferred return, and profit of such funds, partnerships and accounts is being allocated to, or earned by, the general partner in accordance with the applicable limited partnership agreements or other governing agreements; (ii) “AUM Not Currently Generating Performance Fees”, which refers to invested capital of the funds, partnerships and accounts we manage, advise, or to which we provide certain other investment-related services, that is currently below its hurdle rate or preferred return; and (iii) “Uninvested Performance Fee-Eligible AUM”, which refers to capital of the funds, partnerships and accounts we manage, advise, or to which we provide certain other investment-related services, that is available for investment or reinvestment subject to the provisions of applicable limited partnership agreements or other governing agreements, which capital is not currently part of the NAV or fair value of investments that may eventually produce performance fees allocable to, or earned by, the general partner.

AUM that may eventually produce performance fees. All funds for which we are entitled to receive a performance fee allocation or incentive fee are included in Performance Fee-Eligible AUM, which consists of the following: (i) “Performance Fee-Generating AUM”, which refers to invested capital of the funds, partnerships and accounts we manage, advise, or to which we provide certain other investment-related services, that is currently above its hurdle rate or preferred return, and profit of such funds, partnerships and accounts is being allocated to, or earned by, the general partner in accordance with the applicable limited partnership agreements or other governing agreements; (ii) “AUM Not Currently Generating Performance Fees”, which refers to invested capital of the funds, partnerships and accounts we manage, advise, or to which we provide certain other investment-related services, that is currently below its hurdle rate or preferred return; and (iii) “Uninvested Performance Fee-Eligible AUM”, which refers to capital of the funds, partnerships and accounts we manage, advise, or to which we provide certain other investment-related services, that is available for investment or reinvestment subject to the provisions of applicable limited partnership agreements or other governing agreements, which capital is not currently part of the NAV or fair value of investments that may eventually produce performance fees allocable to, or earned by, the general partner.

Perpetual capital Assets under management of certain vehicles with an indefinite duration, which assets may only be withdrawn under certain conditions or subject to certain limitations, including satisfying required hold periods or percentage limits on the amounts that may be redeemed over a particular period. The investment management, advisory or other service agreements with our perpetual capital vehicles may be terminated under certain circumstances.

Assets under management of certain vehicles with an indefinite duration, which assets may only be withdrawn under certain conditions or subject to certain limitations, including satisfying required hold periods or percentage limits on the amounts that may be redeemed over a particular period. The investment management, advisory or other service agreements with our perpetual capital vehicles may be terminated under certain circumstances.

Principal Investing Income, or PII Component of Segment Income that is used to assess the performance of the Principal Investing segment. For the Principal Investing segment, PII is the sum of (i) realized performance fees, including certain realizations received in the form of equity, (ii) realized investment income, less (x) realized principal investing compensation expense, excluding expense related to equity-based compensation, and (y) certain corporate compensation and non-compensation expenses.

Component of Segment Income that is used to assess the performance of the Principal Investing segment. For the Principal Investing segment, PII is the sum of (i) realized performance fees, including certain realizations received in the form of equity, (ii) realized investment income, less (x) realized principal investing compensation expense, excluding expense related to equity-based compensation, and (y) certain corporate compensation and non-compensation expenses.

Principal investing compensation Realized performance compensation, distributions related to investment income and dividends, and includes allocations of certain compensation expenses related to managing the business.

Realized performance compensation, distributions related to investment income and dividends, and includes allocations of certain compensation expenses related to managing the business.

Policy loan A loan to a policyholder under the terms of, and which is secured by, a policyholder’s policy.

A loan to a policyholder under the terms of, and which is secured by, a policyholder’s policy.

Realized Value All cash investment proceeds received by the relevant Apollo fund, including interest and dividends, but does not give effect to management fees, expenses, incentive compensation or performance fees to be paid by such Apollo fund.

All cash investment proceeds received by the relevant Apollo fund, including interest and dividends, but does not give effect to management fees, expenses, incentive compensation or performance fees to be paid by such Apollo fund.

Redding Ridge Redding Ridge Asset Management, LLC and its subsidiaries, which is a standalone, self-managed asset management business established in connection with risk retention rules that manages CLOs and retains the required risk retention interests.

Redding Ridge Asset Management, LLC and its subsidiaries, which is a standalone, self-managed asset management business established in connection with risk retention rules that manages CLOs and retains the required risk retention interests.

Redding Ridge Holdings Redding Ridge Holdings LP

Remaining Cost Total Invested Capital, reduced for any return of capital proceeds received to date.

Total Invested Capital, reduced for any return of capital proceeds received to date.

RMBS Residential mortgage-backed securities

SPACs Special purpose acquisition companies

Spread Related Earnings, or SRE Component of Segment Income that is used to assess the performance of the Retirement Services segment, excluding certain market volatility, which consists of investment gains (losses), net of offsets and non-operating change in insurance liabilities and related derivatives, and certain expenses related to integration, restructuring, and equity-based compensation, as well as other items. For the Retirement Services segment, SRE equals the sum of (i) the net investment earnings on Athene’s net invested assets and (ii) management fees received on business managed for others, less (x) cost of funds, (y) operating expenses excluding equity-based compensation and (z) financing costs, including interest expense and preferred dividends, if any, paid to Athene preferred stockholders.

Component of Segment Income that is used to assess the performance of the Retirement Services segment, excluding certain market volatility, which consists of investment gains (losses), net of offsets and non-operating change in insurance liabilities and related derivatives, and certain expenses related to integration, restructuring, and equity-based compensation, as well as other items. For the Retirement Services segment, SRE equals the sum of (i) the net investment earnings on Athene’s net invested assets and (ii) management fees received on business managed for others, less (x) cost of funds, (y) operating expenses excluding equity-based compensation and (z) financing costs, including interest expense and preferred dividends, if any, paid to Athene preferred stockholders.

Surplus assets Assets in excess of Athene’s policyholder and institutional obligations, determined in accordance with the applicable domiciliary jurisdiction’s statutory accounting principles.

Assets in excess of Athene’s policyholder and institutional obligations, determined in accordance with the applicable domiciliary jurisdiction’s statutory accounting principles.

S3 Equity and Hybrid Solutions Apollo S3 Equity and Hybrid Solutions Fund, L.P.

Apollo S3 Equity and Hybrid Solutions Fund, L.P.

Total Invested Capital The aggregate cash invested by the relevant Apollo fund and includes capitalized costs relating to investment activities, if any, but does not give effect to cash pending investment or available for reserves and excludes amounts, if any, invested on a financed basis with leverage facilities

The aggregate cash invested by the relevant Apollo fund and includes capitalized costs relating to investment activities, if any, but does not give effect to cash pending investment or available for reserves and excludes amounts, if any, invested on a financed basis with leverage facilities

Total Value The sum of the total Realized Value and Unrealized Value of investments

The sum of the total Realized Value and Unrealized Value of investments

Traditional private equity funds Apollo Investment Fund I, L.P. (“Fund I”), AIF II, L.P. (“Fund II”), a mirrored investment account established to mirror Fund I and Fund II for investments in debt securities (“MIA”), Apollo Investment Fund III, L.P. (together with its parallel funds, “Fund III”), Apollo Investment Fund IV, L.P. (together with its parallel fund, “Fund IV”), Apollo Investment Fund V, L.P. (together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles, “Fund V”), Apollo Investment Fund VI, L.P. (together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles, “Fund VI”), Apollo Investment Fund VII, L.P. (together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles, “Fund VII”), Apollo Investment Fund VIII, L.P. (together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles, “Fund VIII”), Apollo Investment Fund IX, L.P. (together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles, “Fund IX”) and Apollo Investment Fund X, L.P. (together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles, “Fund X”).

Apollo Investment Fund I, L.P. (“Fund I”), AIF II, L.P. (“Fund II”), a mirrored investment account established to mirror Fund I and Fund II for investments in debt securities (“MIA”), Apollo Investment Fund III, L.P. (together with its parallel funds, “Fund III”), Apollo Investment Fund IV, L.P. (together with its parallel fund, “Fund IV”), Apollo Investment Fund V, L.P. (together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles, “Fund V”), Apollo Investment Fund VI, L.P. (together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles, “Fund VI”), Apollo Investment Fund VII, L.P. (together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles, “Fund VII”), Apollo Investment Fund VIII, L.P. (together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles, “Fund VIII”), Apollo Investment Fund IX, L.P. (together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles, “Fund IX”) and Apollo Investment Fund X, L.P. (together with its parallel funds and alternative investment vehicles, “Fund X”).

U.S. GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America

Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America

U.S. RBC The CAL RBC ratio for AAIA, Athene's U.S. insurance company

The CAL RBC ratio for AAIA, Athene's U.S. insurance company

U.S. Treasury United States Department of the Treasury

United States Department of the Treasury

Unlocking Assumption unlocking is the annual process of revising current assumptions that impact the projection of benefits to align with recent experience. This may result in an immediate impact that may be favorable, resulting in a reduction in reserves or an increase in VOBA, or unfavorable, resulting in an increase in reserves or a decrease in VOBA.

Assumption unlocking is the annual process of revising current assumptions that impact the projection of benefits to align with recent experience. This may result in an immediate impact that may be favorable, resulting in a reduction in reserves or an increase in VOBA, or unfavorable, resulting in an increase in reserves or a decrease in VOBA.

Unrealized Value The fair value consistent with valuations determined in accordance with GAAP, for investments not yet realized and may include payments in kind, accrued interest and dividends receivable, if any, and before the effect of certain taxes. In addition, amounts include committed and funded amounts for certain investments.

The fair value consistent with valuations determined in accordance with GAAP, for investments not yet realized and may include payments in kind, accrued interest and dividends receivable, if any, and before the effect of certain taxes. In addition, amounts include committed and funded amounts for certain investments.

Venerable Venerable Holdings, Inc., together with its subsidiaries

Venerable Holdings, Inc., together with its subsidiaries

VIAC Venerable Insurance and Annuity Company

Vintage Year The year in which a fund’s final capital raise occurred, or, for certain funds, the year of a fund’s effective date or the year in which a fund’s investment period commences pursuant to its governing agreements.

The year in which a fund’s final capital raise occurred, or, for certain funds, the year of a fund’s effective date or the year in which a fund’s investment period commences pursuant to its governing agreements.

Actual Stockholder Controller Voting Power Defined Stockholder Controller Voting Power

Actual Stockholder Controller Voting Power

Defined Stockholder Controller Voting Power

Period Total number of shares of common stock purchased Average price paid per share Total number of shares of common stock purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs 1 Approximate dollar value of common stock that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs

Total number of shares of common stock purchased

Total number of shares of common stock purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs 1

Approximate dollar value of common stock that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs

October 1, 2025 through October 31, 2025

November 1, 2025 through November 30, 2025

Equity award-related repurchases 2 1,828,097 1,828,097

Total 1,828,097 $ 128.74 1,828,097 $ 442,874,505

December 1, 2025 through December 31, 2025

Equity award-related repurchases 2 183,029 183,029

Total 183,029 $ 136.62 183,029 $ 417,868,692

Equity award-related repurchases 2 2,011,126 2,011,126

1 On February 8, 2024, the AGM board of directors terminated the Company’s prior share repurchase program and approved a new share repurchase program, pursuant to which, the Company is authorized to repurchase up to $3.0 billion of shares of its common stock to opportunistically reduce the Company’s share count or offset the dilutive impact of share issuances under the Equity Plan. Effective February 9, 2026, the AGM board of directors terminated the Company's prior share repurchase program and approved a new share repurchase program, pursuant to which, the Company is authorized to repurchase up to $4.0 billion of shares of its common stock to opportunistically reduce the Company’s share count or offset the dilutive impact of share issuances under the Equity Plan. Under the share repurchase program, repurchases may be of outstanding shares of common stock occurring from time to time in open market transactions, in privately negotiated transactions, pursuant to a trading plan adopted in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise, as well as through reductions of shares that otherwise would have been issued to participants under the Equity Plan in order to satisfy associated tax obligations. The share repurchase program does not obligate the Company to make any repurchases at any specific time. The program is effective until the aggregate repurchase amount that has been approved by the AGM board of directors has been expended. The program may be suspended, extended, modified or discontinued at any time.

2 Represents repurchases of shares of common stock in order to offset the dilutive impact of share issuances under the Equity Plan including reductions of shares of common stock that otherwise would have been issued to participants under the Equity Plan in order to satisfy associated tax obligations.

As of December 31, Performance Fees for the Year Ended December 31, 2025 Performance Fees for the Year Ended December 31, 2024 Performance Fees for the Year Ended December 31, 2023

Performance Fees for the Year Ended December 31, 2025

Performance Fees for the Year Ended December 31, 2024

Performance Fees for the Year Ended December 31, 2023

(In millions) Performance Fees Receivable on an Unconsolidated Basis Unrealized Realized Total Unrealized Realized Total Unrealized Realized Total

Performance Fees Receivable on an Unconsolidated Basis

Accord and Accord+ Funds $ 139 $ 93 $ (28) $ 103 $ 75 $ 34 $ 20 $ 54 $ 59 $ — $ 59

AIOF I, II and III 50 57 (7) 23 16 39 — 39 8 5 13

ANRP I, II and III 1 53 48 6 19 25 36 25 61 (12) 2 (10)

Athora 22 84 (63) — (63) (15) — (15) (18) — (18)

Credit Strategies 126 113 1 125 126 1 112 113 4 83 87

EPF Funds 1 32 21 17 6 23 — 19 19 (121) 34 (87)

FCI Funds 90 109 (19) — (19) 23 — 23 10 — 10

Freedom Parent Holdings 77 40 (10) 77 67 (53) 117 64 63 — 63

Fund X 480 199 281 143 424 198 — 198 1 — 1

Fund IX 1,134 1,597 (463) 382 (81) (117) 419 302 453 288 741

Fund VIII 2 — 23 (20) 6 (14) (158) 4 (154) (259) 118 (141)

Fund IV and Fund V 1 — — — — — — — — 30 (30) —

HVF II 190 168 22 111 133 168 — 168 — — —

MidCap FinCo 38 43 — 24 24 5 38 43 (143) 57 (86)

Redding Ridge Holdings 214 164 50 35 85 45 35 80 27 34 61

Bridge Funds 148 — (30) 9 (21) — — — — — —

Other 1,3 857 617 173 389 562 69 294 363 31 230 261

Total $ 3,770 $ 3,467 $ (69) $ 1,464 $ 1,395 $ 264 $ 1,128 $ 1,392 $ 118 $ 888 $ 1,006

Total, net of profit sharing payable 4 /expense $ 1,840 $ 1,684 $ (30) $ 630 $ 600 $ 118 $ 516 $ 634 $ (54) $ 335 $ 281

Total, net of profit sharing payable 4 /expense

1 As of December 31, 2025, certain funds had $212 million in general partner obligations to return previously distributed performance fees. The fair value gain on investments and income at the fund level needed to reverse the general partner obligations was $2.2 billion as of December 31, 2025.

2 As of December 31, 2025, the remaining investments and escrow cash of Fund VIII was valued at 87% of the fund’s unreturned capital, which was below the required escrow ratio of 115%. As a result, the fund is required to place in escrow current and future performance fee distributions to the general partner until the specified return ratio of 115% is met (at the time of a future distribution) or upon liquidation. As of December 31, 2025, Fund VIII had $138 million of gross performance fees, or $76 million net of profit sharing in escrow. With respect to Fund VIII, realized performance fees currently distributed to the general partner are limited to potential tax distributions and interest on escrow balances per the fund’s partnership agreement. Performance fees receivable as of December 31, 2025 and realized performance fees for the year ended December 31, 2025 include interest earned on escrow balances that is not subject to contingent repayment.

4 There was a corresponding profit sharing payable of $1.9 billion as of December 31, 2025, including profit sharing payable related to amounts in escrow and contingent consideration obligations of $72 million.

(In millions) Undistributed by Fund and Recognized Distributed by Fund and Recognized 2 Total Undistributed and Distributed by Fund and Recognized 3 General Partner Obligation 3 Maximum Performance Fees Subject to Potential Reversal 4

Total Undistributed and Distributed by Fund and Recognized 3

Maximum Performance Fees Subject to Potential Reversal 4

Accord and Accord+ Funds $ 139 $ 75 $ 214 $ — $ 115

Total $ 3,770 $ 15,481 $ 19,251 $ 212 $ 5,984

1 Certain funds are denominated in euros and historical figures are translated into U.S. dollars at an exchange rate of €1.00 to $1.17 as of December 31, 2025. Certain funds are denominated in pounds sterling and historical figures are translated into U.S. dollars at an exchange rate of £1.00 to $1.35 as of December 31, 2025.

2 Amounts exclude certain performance fees from business development companies and Redding Ridge Holdings, an affiliate of Redding Ridge.

3 Amounts were computed based on the fair value of fund investments on December 31, 2025. Performance fees have been allocated to and recognized by the general partner. Based on the amount allocated, a portion is subject to potential reversal or, to the extent applicable, has been reduced by the general partner obligation to return previously distributed performance fees at December 31, 2025. The actual determination and any required payment of any such general partner obligation would not take place until the final disposition of the fund’s investments based on contractual termination of the fund.

4 Represents the amount of performance fees that would be reversed if remaining fund investments became worthless on December 31, 2025. Amounts subject to potential reversal of performance fees include amounts undistributed by a fund ( i.e. , the performance fees receivable), as well as a portion of the amounts that have been distributed by a fund, net of taxes and not subject to a general partner obligation to return previously distributed performance fees, except for those funds that are gross of taxes as defined in the respective funds’ governing documents.

Years ended December 31, Total Change Percentage Change Years ended December 31, Total Change Percentage Change

(In millions, except percentages) 2025 2024 2024 2023

Management fees $ 2,378 $ 1,899 $ 479 25.2% $ 1,899 $ 1,772 $ 127 7.2%

Advisory and transaction fees, net 1,202 822 380 46.2 822 623 199 31.9

Investment income (loss) 1,143 1,305 (162) (12.4) 1,305 1,032 273 26.5

Incentive fees 245 150 95 63.3 150 80 70 87.5

Property management, development and other fees 32 — 32 NM — — — NM

Property management, development and other fees

5,000 4,176 824 19.7 4,176 3,507 669 19.1

Premiums 2,628 1,318 1,310 99.4 1,318 12,749 (11,431) (89.7)

Product charges 1,137 1,016 121 11.9 1,016 848 168 19.8

Net investment income 19,245 15,718 3,527 22.4 15,718 12,080 3,638 30.1

Investment related gains (losses) 1,544 2,045 (501) (24.5) 2,045 1,428 617 43.2

Revenues of consolidated variable interest entities 2,470 1,822 648 35.6 1,822 1,441 381 26.4

Revenues of consolidated variable interest entities

Other revenues 25 19 6 31.6 19 591 (572) (96.8)

27,049 21,938 5,111 23.3 21,938 29,137 (7,199) (24.7)

Total Revenues 32,049 26,114 5,935 22.7 26,114 32,644 (6,530) (20.0)

Salary, bonus and benefits 1,443 1,140 303 26.6 1,140 1,027 113 11.0

Equity-based compensation 740 671 69 10.3 671 938 (267) (28.5)

Profit sharing expense 810 797 13 1.6 797 757 40 5.3

Total compensation and benefits 2,993 2,608 385 14.8 2,608 2,722 (114) (4.2)

Interest expense 256 226 30 13.3 226 145 81 55.9

General, administrative and other 1,546 1,170 376 32.1 1,170 872 298 34.2

4,795 4,004 791 19.8 4,004 3,739 265 7.1

Interest sensitive contract benefits 12,089 8,949 3,140 35.1 8,949 6,229 2,720 43.7

Future policy and other policy benefits 4,433 3,054 1,379 45.2 3,054 14,434 (11,380) (78.8)

Market risk benefits remeasurement (gains) losses 452 (102) 554 NM (102) 404 (506) NM

Market risk benefits remeasurement (gains) losses

Amortization of deferred acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements and value of business acquired 1,242 941 301 32.0 941 688 253 36.8

Amortization of deferred acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements and value of business acquired

Policy and other operating expenses 2,278 2,136 142 6.6 2,136 1,837 299 16.3

20,494 14,978 5,516 36.8 14,978 23,592 (8,614) (36.5)

Total Expenses 25,289 18,982 6,307 33.2 18,982 27,331 (8,349) (30.5)

Net gains (losses) from investment activities (251) 58 (309) NM 58 7 51 NM

Net gains (losses) from investment activities

Net gains (losses) from investment activities of consolidated variable interest entities 304 90 214 237.8 90 130 (40) (30.8)

Net gains (losses) from investment activities of consolidated variable interest entities

Other income (loss), net (136) 155 (291) NM 155 136 19 14.0

Total Other income (loss) (83) 303 (386) NM 303 273 30 11.0

Income (loss) before income tax (provision) benefit 6,677 7,435 (758) (10.2) 7,435 5,586 1,849 33.1

Income (loss) before income tax (provision) benefit

Income tax (provision) benefit (1,276) (1,062) (214) 20.2 (1,062) 923 (1,985) NM

Net income (loss) 5,401 6,373 (972) (15.3) 6,373 6,509 (136) (2.1)

Net (income) loss attributable to non-controlling interests (1,909) (1,796) (113) 6.3 (1,796) (1,462) (334) 22.8

Net (income) loss attributable to non-controlling interests

Net income (loss) attributable to Apollo Global Management, Inc. 3,492 4,577 (1,085) (23.7) 4,577 5,047 (470) (9.3)

Net income (loss) attributable to Apollo Global Management, Inc.

Preferred stock dividends (97) (97) — — (97) (46) (51) 110.9

Net income (loss) available to Apollo Global Management, Inc. common stockholders $ 3,395 $ 4,480 $ (1,085) (24.2)% $ 4,480 $ 5,001 $ (521) (10.4)%

Net income (loss) available to Apollo Global Management, Inc. common stockholders

Note: “NM” denotes not meaningful. Changes from negative to positive amounts and positive to negative amounts are not considered meaningful. Increases or decreases from zero and changes greater than 500% are also not considered meaningful.

Management fees – Credit $ 2,475 $ 2,015 $ 460 22.8% $ 2,015 $ 1,688 $ 327 19.4%

Management fees – Equity 916 761 155 20.4 761 792 (31) (3.9)

Management fees 3,391 2,776 615 22.2 2,776 2,480 296 11.9

Capital solutions fees and other, net 808 668 140 21.0 668 538 130 24.2

Fee-related performance fees 266 208 58 27.9 208 146 62 42.5

Fee-related compensation (1,178) (925) 253 27.4 (925) (835) 90 10.8

Non-compensation expenses (759) (664) 95 14.3 (664) (561) 103 18.4

Fee Related Earnings (FRE) $ 2,528 $ 2,063 $ 465 22.5% $ 2,063 $ 1,768 $ 295 16.7%

Performance Fee-Generating AUM 1 $ 138,572 $ 83,282 $ 221,854

AUM Not Currently Generating Performance Fees 20,690 19,499 40,189

AUM Not Currently Generating Performance Fees

Uninvested Performance Fee-Eligible AUM 28,958 30,890 59,848

Total Performance Fee-Eligible AUM $ 188,220 $ 133,671 $ 321,891

Performance Fee-Generating AUM 1 $ 92,532 $ 57,665 $ 150,197

AUM Not Currently Generating Performance Fees 10,454 4,354 14,808

Uninvested Performance Fee-Eligible AUM 30,695 27,779 58,474

Total Performance Fee-Eligible AUM $ 133,681 $ 89,798 $ 223,479

1 Performance Fee-Generating AUM of $9.8 billion and $6.1 billion as of December 31, 2025 and December 31, 2024, respectively, are above the hurdle rates or preferred returns and have been deferred to future periods when the fees are probable to not be significantly reversed.

Fee-Generating AUM based on capital commitments $ — $ 32,928 $ 32,928

Fee-Generating AUM based on capital commitments

Fee-Generating AUM based on invested capital 15,495 50,467 65,962

Fee-Generating AUM based on invested capital

Fee-Generating AUM based on gross/adjusted assets 511,385 6,180 517,565

Fee-Generating AUM based on gross/adjusted assets

Fee-Generating AUM based on NAV 79,586 13,098 92,684

Total Fee-Generating AUM $ 606,466 $ 102,673 1 $ 709,139

1 The weighted average remaining life of the traditional private equity funds as of December 31, 2025 was 56 months.

Fee-Generating AUM based on capital commitments $ — $ 24,678 $ 24,678

Fee-Generating AUM based on invested capital 12,462 33,271 45,733

Fee-Generating AUM based on gross/adjusted assets 421,421 5,547 426,968

Fee-Generating AUM based on NAV 61,960 9,327 71,287

Total Fee-Generating AUM $ 495,843 $ 72,823 1 $ 568,666

1 The weighted average remaining life of the traditional private equity funds as of December 31, 2024 was 60 months.

(In millions) Credit Equity Total Credit Equity Total

Beginning of Period $ 616,387 $ 134,650 $ 751,037 $ 515,523 $ 135,253 $ 650,776

Inflows 2 169,719 61,958 231,677 142,628 9,776 152,404

Outflows 2 (61,740) (1,923) (63,663) (52,192) (7,157) (59,349)

Net Flows 107,979 60,035 168,014 90,436 2,619 93,055

Realizations (8,840) (13,049) (21,889) (14,136) (9,034) (23,170)

Market Activity 3 33,702 7,542 41,244 24,564 5,812 30,376

End of Period $ 749,228 $ 189,178 $ 938,406 $ 616,387 $ 134,650 $ 751,037

1 At the individual strategy level, inflows include new subscriptions, commitments, capital raised, other increases in available capital, purchases, acquisitions and portfolio company appreciation. Outflows represent redemptions, other decreases in available capital and portfolio company depreciation. Realizations represent fund distributions of realized proceeds. Market activity represents gains (losses), the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations and other income.

2 Inflows and outflows reflected above include $3.4 billion for Total AUM related to a strategy realignment of certain funds from credit to equity as of January 1, 2025 with no impact to net flows presented for the year ended December 31, 2025. Outflows for Total AUM include redemptions of $7.1 billion and $6.9 billion during the years ended December 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively.

3 Includes foreign exchange impacts of $9.9 billion and $(5.3) billion during the years ended December 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively.

Beginning of Period $ 495,843 $ 72,823 $ 568,666 $ 422,036 $ 70,916 $ 492,952

Inflows 2 148,192 41,243 189,435 118,318 10,574 128,892

Outflows 2,3 (60,479) (9,309) (69,788) (60,556) (6,617) (67,173)

Net Flows 87,713 31,934 119,647 57,762 3,957 61,719

Realizations (6,271) (3,327) (9,598) (5,575) (2,130) (7,705)

Market Activity 4 29,181 1,243 30,424 21,620 80 21,700

End of Period $ 606,466 $ 102,673 $ 709,139 $ 495,843 $ 72,823 $ 568,666

2 Inflows and outflows reflected above include $2.0 billion for Fee-Generating AUM related to a strategy realignment of certain funds from credit to equity as of January 1, 2025 with no impact to net flows presented for the year ended December 31, 2025. Outflows for Fee-Generating AUM include redemptions of $6.4 billion and $6.6 billion during the years ended December 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively.

3 Included in the equity outflows for Fee-Generating AUM for the year ended December 31, 2025 is $4.5 billion related to the expiration of Fund VIII's fee-paying period.

4 Includes foreign exchange impacts of $7.5 billion and $(3.8) billion during the years ended December 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively.

Fixed income and other net investment income $ 13,021 $ 10,805 $ 2,216 20.5% $ 10,805 $ 8,739 $ 2,066 23.6%

Fixed income and other net investment income

Alternative net investment income 1,299 939 360 38.3 939 864 75 8.7

Net investment earnings 14,320 11,744 2,576 21.9 11,744 9,603 2,141 22.3

Strategic capital management fees 131 105 26 24.8 105 72 33 45.8

Cost of funds (10,083) (7,702) 2,381 30.9 (7,702) (5,650) 2,052 36.3

Net investment spread 4,368 4,147 221 5.3 4,147 4,025 122 3.0

Other operating expenses (447) (458) (11) (2.4) (458) (481) (23) (4.8)

Interest and other financing costs (560) (465) 95 20.4 (465) (436) 29 6.7

Spread Related Earnings $ 3,361 $ 3,224 $ 137 4.2% $ 3,224 $ 3,108 $ 116 3.7%

Years ended December 31, Years ended December 31,

Fixed income and other net investment earned rate 5.01 % 4.86 % 15 bps 4.86 % 4.45 % 41 bps

Fixed income and other net investment earned rate

Alternative net investment earned rate 10.01 % 8.03 % 198 bps 8.03 % 7.22 % 81 bps

Net investment earned rate 5.25 % 5.03 % 22 bps 5.03 % 4.61 % 42 bps

Strategic capital management fees 0.05 % 0.04 % 1 bp 0.04 % 0.03 % 1 bp

Cost of funds (3.69) % (3.29) % 40 bps (3.29) % (2.71) % 58 bps

Net investment spread 1.61 % 1.78 % (17) bps 1.78 % 1.93 % (15) bps

(In millions, except percentages) Carrying Value Percentage of Total Carrying Value Percentage of Total

Available-for-sale securities, at fair value

U.S. government and agencies $ 16,898 4.4 % $ 7,151 2.3 %

U.S. state, municipal and political subdivisions 759 0.2 % 921 0.3 %

U.S. state, municipal and political subdivisions

Foreign governments 1,659 0.4 % 1,568 0.5 %

Total available-for-sale securities, at fair value 192,597 49.9 % 165,364 52.6 %

Total available-for-sale securities, at fair value

Trading securities, at fair value 6,409 1.7 % 1,583 0.5 %

Equity securities, at fair value 822 0.2 % 1,290 0.4 %

Mortgage loans, at fair value 91,918 23.8 % 63,239 20.1 %

Funds withheld at interest 15,413 4.0 % 18,866 6.0 %

Derivative assets 9,190 2.4 % 8,154 2.6 %

Short-term investments 175 — % 447 0.2 %

Other investments 4,148 1.1 % 2,915 0.9 %

Total investments 321,081 83.2 % 262,283 83.4 %

Total available-for-sale securities, at fair value 26,047 6.7 % 18,803 6.0 %

Trading securities, at fair value 454 0.1 % 573 0.2 %

Equity securities, at fair value 266 0.1 % 234 0.1 %

Mortgage loans, at fair value 1,486 0.4 % 1,297 0.4 %

Investment funds 2,149 0.6 % 1,853 0.6 %

Funds withheld at interest 4,215 1.1 % 5,050 1.6 %

Other investments, at fair value 344 0.1 % 331 0.1 %

Total related party investments 34,979 9.1 % 28,884 9.2 %

Total investments, including related parties 356,060 92.3 % 291,167 92.6 %

Total investments, including related parties

Trading securities, at fair value 3,120 0.8 % 2,301 0.7 %

Mortgage loans, at fair value 2,140 0.5 % 2,579 0.8 %

Investment funds, at fair value 23,888 6.2 % 17,660 5.6 %

Total investments of consolidated VIEs 29,992 7.7 % 23,424 7.4 %

Total investments, including related parties and consolidated VIEs $ 386,052 100.0 % $ 314,591 100.0 %

Total investments, including related parties and consolidated VIEs

(In millions, except percentages) Net Invested Asset Value 1 Percentage of Total Net Invested Asset Value 1 Percentage of Total

Corporate $ 86,664 29.6 % $ 86,051 34.6 %

Alternative investments 13,868 4.7 % 12,000 4.8 %

State, municipal, political subdivisions and foreign government 3,081 1.0 % 3,237 1.3 %

State, municipal, political subdivisions and foreign government

Equity securities 2,039 0.7 % 2,201 0.9 %

Short-term investments 207 0.1 % 1,015 0.4 %

U.S. government and agencies 14,225 4.9 % 5,531 2.2 %

Other investments 71,837 24.5 % 52,654 21.1 %

Cash and cash equivalents 10,490 3.6 % 6,794 2.7 %

Net invested assets $ 292,414 100.0 % $ 248,643 100.0 %

1 See “Managing Business Performance - Key Segment and Non-U.S. GAAP Performance Measures” for the definition of net invested assets.

Realized performance fees $ 1,198 $ 921 $ 277 30.1% $ 921 $ 742 $ 179 24.1%

Realized investment income (loss) 95 74 21 28.4 74 (2) 76 NM

Principal investing compensation (892) (664) 228 34.3 (664) (601) 63 10.5

Other operating expenses (63) (60) 3 5.0 (60) (56) 4 7.1

Principal Investing Income (PII) $ 338 $ 271 $ 67 24.7% $ 271 $ 83 $ 188 226.5%

(In millions, except IRR) Vintage Year Total AUM Committed Capital Total Invested Capital Realized Value Remaining Cost Unrealized Value Total Value Gross IRR Net IRR

Accord VII 1,5 N/A $ 1,531 $ 1,383 $ 40 $ — $ 40 $ 40 $ 40 NM 4 NM 4

Accord I, II, III, III B, IV, V & VI 1 Various 608 9,693 7,455 7,974 — — 7,974 18 % 13 %

Accord+ II 2025 5,469 4,796 5,266 1,977 3,570 3,747 5,724 NM 4 NM 4

Accord+ 2021 2,476 2,370 7,062 8,006 8 32 8,038 14 11

ADIP II 2024 7,061 6,016 3,069 — 3,069 3,875 3,875 20 14

ADIP I 2020 5,303 3,254 2,620 2,014 2,438 3,010 5,024 21 18

EPF IV 2023 3,267 3,146 1,851 836 1,213 1,386 2,222 16 10

EPF III 2017 2,070 4,580 5,146 4,822 1,347 1,152 5,974 6 1

Total Credit $ 27,785 $ 35,238 $ 32,509 $ 25,629 $ 11,685 $ 13,242 $ 38,871

Fund X 2023 $ 23,014 $ 19,877 $ 10,765 $ 3,319 $ 8,670 $ 11,938 $ 15,257 36 % 22 %

Fund IX 2018 28,303 24,729 23,236 17,304 15,923 23,556 40,860 22 15

Fund VIII 2013 5,410 18,377 16,926 24,516 3,370 3,602 28,118 13 9

Fund VII 2008 — 14,677 16,461 34,294 — — 34,294 33 25

Fund VI 2006 377 10,136 12,457 21,136 405 — 21,136 12 9

Fund V 2001 — 3,742 5,192 12,724 — — 12,724 61 44

Fund I, II, III, IV & MIA 2 Various 8 7,320 8,753 17,400 — — 17,400 39 26

Traditional Private Equity Funds 3 $ 57,112 $ 98,858 $ 93,790 $ 130,693 $ 28,368 $ 39,096 $ 169,789 39 24

AIOF III 2024 2,455 2,399 669 — 669 811 811 NM 4 NM 4

AIOF II 2020 2,788 2,542 2,434 1,153 1,652 2,049 3,202 14 9

AIOF I 2018 15 897 803 1,280 — — 1,280 22 16

HVF III 5 N/A 4,107 4,128 446 — 446 446 446 NM 4 NM 4

HVF II 2022 5,614 4,592 4,821 1,444 4,030 5,204 6,648 16 13

HVF I 2019 2,000 3,238 3,711 4,593 804 1,313 5,906 21 17

Total Equity $ 74,091 $ 116,654 $ 106,674 $ 139,163 $ 35,969 $ 48,919 $ 188,082

1 Accord funds have investment periods shorter than 24 months, therefore Gross and Net IRR are presented after 12 months of investing.

2 The general partners and managers of Funds I, II and MIA, as well as the general partner of Fund III, were excluded assets in connection with the reorganization of the Company that occurred in 2007. As a result, Apollo did not receive the economics associated with these entities. The investment performance of these funds, combined with Fund IV, is presented to illustrate fund performance associated with Apollo’s investment professionals.

3 Total IRR is calculated based on total cash flows for all funds presented.

4 Data has not been presented as the fund’s effective date is less than 24 months prior to the period indicated and such information was deemed not meaningful.

5 Vintage Year is not yet applicable as the fund has not had its final closing.

(In millions) Total Invested Capital Total Value

1 The deleveraging investment strategy includes deleveraging for control, non-control deleveraging and other credit. Other credit is defined as investments in debt securities of issuers other than portfolio companies that are not considered to be deleveraging.

(In millions) IPO Year 1 Total AUM For the Year Ended December 31, 2025 For the Year Ended December 31, 2024

1 An IPO year represents the year in which the vehicle commenced trading on a national securities exchange.

2 ADS is not a publicly traded vehicle and therefore IPO year is not applicable. The returns presented are net returns based on NAV.

3 MidCap FinCo is not a publicly traded vehicle and therefore IPO year is not applicable. The returns presented are a gross return based on NAV. The net returns based on NAV were 13% and 15% for the years ended December 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively.

4 Total returns are based on the change in closing trading prices during the respective periods presented taking into account dividends and distributions, if any, as if they were reinvested without regard to commission.

5 AUM is presented on a three-month lag, as of September 30, 2025, based upon the availability of the information.

6 ADREF, ADCF and ARIS are not publicly traded vehicles and therefore IPO years are not applicable. The returns presented are for their respective Class I shares and are net returns based on NAV.

7 Other includes, among others, AUM of $1.9 billion related to a publicly traded business development company from which Apollo earns investment-related service fees, but for which Apollo does not provide management or advisory services, as of September 30, 2025. Returns and IPO year are not provided for these AUM. Other also includes AUM of $11.0 billion and $3 billion related to third-party capital within AAA and Bridge funds, respectively.

GAAP Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Apollo Global Management, Inc. $ 3,395 $ 4,480 $ 5,001

GAAP Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Apollo Global Management, Inc.

Net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests 1,909 1,796 1,462

Net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests

GAAP Net Income (Loss) 5,401 6,373 6,509

Income tax provision (benefit) 1,276 1,062 (923)

GAAP Income (Loss) Before Income Tax Provision (Benefit) 6,677 7,435 5,586

GAAP Income (Loss) Before Income Tax Provision (Benefit)

Equity-based profit sharing expense 1 211 321 239

Net (income) loss attributable to non-controlling interests in consolidated entities (2,157) (1,840) (1,556)

Net (income) loss attributable to non-controlling interests in consolidated entities

Unrealized performance fees 64 (264) (127)

Unrealized profit sharing expense (34) 145 179

HoldCo interest and other financing costs 2 143 80 88

HoldCo interest and other financing costs 2

Unrealized principal investment (income) loss (25) 9 (88)

Unrealized principal investment (income) loss

Unrealized net (gains) losses from investment activities 362 (46) (37)

Unrealized net (gains) losses from investment activities

Transaction-related costs, restructuring and other non-operating expenses 3 487 184 147

Transaction-related costs, restructuring and other non-operating expenses 3

Investment (gains) losses, net of offsets (19) (217) (170)

Investment (gains) losses, net of offsets

Non-operating change in insurance liabilities and related derivatives 4 (91) (846) (182)

Non-operating change in insurance liabilities and related derivatives 4

Integration, restructuring and other non-operating items 121 239 130

Integration, restructuring and other non-operating items

HoldCo interest and other financing costs 2 (143) (80) (88)

Taxes and related payables (889) (913) (789)

Adjusted Net Income $ 5,195 $ 4,565 $ 4,082

1 Equity-based profit sharing expense includes stock-based grants that are tied to realized performance within the Principal Investing segment.

2 Represents interest and other financing costs related to AGM not attributable to any specific segment.

3 Transaction-related costs, restructuring and other non-operating expenses includes; (a) contingent consideration, certain equity-based charges, amortization of intangible assets and certain other expenses associated with acquisitions; (b) gains (losses) from changes in the tax receivable agreement liability; (c) merger-related transaction and integration costs associated with the Company’s merger with Athene; and (d) other non-operating expenses, including the issuance of shares of AGM common stock for charitable contributions. In the year ended December 31, 2025, other non-operating expenses includes $200 million in charitable contributions related to the issuance of shares to the Apollo DAF in February 2025.

4 Includes change in fair values of derivatives and embedded derivatives, non-operating change in funding agreements, change in fair value of market risk benefits, and non-operating change in liability for future policy benefits.

Total GAAP Common Stock Outstanding 578,981,398 565,738,933

Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock 1 14,564,883 14,536,019

Unvested RSUs Eligible for Dividend Equivalents 10,518,154 11,455,245

Unvested RSUs Eligible for Dividend Equivalents

Adjusted Net Income Shares Outstanding 623,502,377 613,067,329

1 Reflects the number of shares of underlying common stock assumed to be issuable upon conversion of the Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock during each period.

(In millions) December 31, 2025 December 31, 2024

Total investments, including related parties $ 356,060 $ 291,167

Cash and cash equivalents (including restricted cash) 16,326 13,676

Cash and cash equivalents (including restricted cash)

Net receivable (payable) for collateral on derivatives (3,458) (4,602)

Net receivable (payable) for collateral on derivatives

VIE and VOE assets, liabilities and non-controlling interests 19,420 17,613

VIE and VOE assets, liabilities and non-controlling interests

Net investment receivables (payables) 217 97

Total adjustments to arrive at gross invested assets 30,913 35,797

Total adjustments to arrive at gross invested assets

ACRA non-controlling interests (94,559) (78,321)

Operating Activities $ 7,246 $ 3,253 $ 6,322

Investing Activities (63,972) (61,801) (42,407)

Financing Activities 60,200 57,972 42,638

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 5 (3) 10

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and cash held at consolidated variable interest entities $ 3,479 $ (579) $ 6,563

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and cash held at consolidated variable interest entities

Net cash provided by the Company's operating activities $ 7,263 $ 3,781 $ 6,519

Net cash provided by the Company's operating activities

Net cash used in the Consolidated Funds and VIEs operating activities (17) (528) (197)

Net cash used in the Consolidated Funds and VIEs operating activities

Net cash provided by operating activities 7,246 3,253 6,322

Net cash provided by operating activities

Net cash used in the Company's investing activities (62,250) (60,547) (39,834)

Net cash used in the Company's investing activities

Net cash used in the Consolidated Funds and VIEs investing activities (1,722) (1,254) (2,573)

Net cash used in the Consolidated Funds and VIEs investing activities

Net cash used in investing activities (63,972) (61,801) (42,407)

Net cash provided by the Company's financing activities 58,010 55,577 42,021

Net cash provided by the Company's financing activities

Net cash provided by the Consolidated Funds and VIEs financing activities 2,190 2,395 617

Net cash provided by the Consolidated Funds and VIEs financing activities

Net cash provided by financing activities $ 60,200 $ 57,972 $ 42,638

Net cash provided by financing activities

Cost of Equity Capital Rate 2 15.5% 13.7% 12.6%

Cost of Equity Capital Rate 2 15.1% 14.4% 12.6%

1 Calculated based on the historical dividends paid during the year ended December 31, 2025 and the price of the Company’s common stock as of the measurement date of the grant on a weighted average basis.

2 Assumes a discount rate that was equivalent to the opportunity cost of foregoing distributions on unvested RSUs as of the valuation date, based on the Capital Asset Pricing Model (“CAPM”). CAPM is a commonly used mathematical model for developing expected returns.

Holding Period Restriction (in years) 0.8 0.3 0.2

Holding Period Restriction (in years) 5.0 2.3 1.1

1 The Company determined the expected volatility based on the volatility of the Company’s common stock price as of the grant date with consideration to comparable companies.

2 Calculated based on the historical dividends paid during the years ended December 31, 2025, 2024 and 2023 and the Company’s common stock price as of the measurement date of the grant on a weighted average basis.

(In millions, except percentages) Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3

Priced via commercial pricing services $ 166,398 $ 17,424 $ 148,974 $ —

Priced via independent broker-dealer quotations 2,542 — 6 2,536

Priced via independent broker-dealer quotations

Priced via models or other methods 49,704 — 5,081 44,623

Priced via commercial pricing services 6,391 24 6,367 —

Priced via independent broker-dealer quotations 5 — — 5

Priced via models or other methods 467 — — 467

Trading securities of consolidated VIEs 3,120 — 683 2,437

Total fixed maturity securities, including related parties and consolidated VIEs 228,627 17,448 161,111 50,068

Total fixed maturity securities, including related parties and consolidated VIEs

Priced via commercial pricing services 814 185 629 —

Priced via independent broker-dealer quotations — — — —

Priced via models or other methods 274 — — 274

Total equity securities, including related parties 1,088 185 629 274

Total equity securities, including related parties

Priced via commercial pricing services 87,380 — — 87,380

Priced via models or other methods 6,024 — — 6,024

Mortgage loans of consolidated VIEs 2,140 — — 2,140

Total mortgage loans, including related parties and consolidated VIEs 95,544 — — 95,544

Total mortgage loans, including related parties and consolidated VIEs

Total fixed maturity securities, equity securities and mortgage loans, including related parties and consolidated VIEs $ 325,259 $ 17,633 $ 161,740 $ 145,886

Total fixed maturity securities, equity securities and mortgage loans, including related parties and consolidated VIEs

Percentage of total 100.0 % 5.4 % 49.7 % 44.9 %

(In millions) 2026 2027 - 2028 2029 - 2030 2031 and Thereafter Total

Operating lease obligations 1 $ 91 $ 188 $ 181 $ 481 $ 941

Other long-term obligations 2 30 3 — — 33

Debt obligations 3 783 549 1,655 7,228 10,215

Interest sensitive contract liabilities 27,794 93,823 82,381 111,891 315,889

Future policy benefits 3,262 6,200 5,470 35,332 50,264

Other policy claims and benefits 121 — — — 121

Dividends payable to policyholders 9 16 13 50 88

Debt obligations 3 440 1,859 1,282 13,692 17,273

Securities to repurchase 4 2,980 2,380 1,145 — 6,505

Obligations $ 35,511 $ 105,020 $ 92,128 $ 176,163 $ 408,822

1 Operating lease obligations excludes $141 million of other operating expenses associated with operating leases.

2 Includes (i) payments on management service agreements related to certain assets and (ii) payments with respect to certain consulting agreements entered into by the Company. Note that a significant portion of these costs are reimbursable by funds.

3 The obligations for debt payments include contractual maturities of principal and estimated future interest payments based on the terms of the debt agreements. See note 14 of the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of these debt obligations.

4 The obligations for securities to repurchase payments include contractual maturities of principal and estimated future interest payments based on the terms of the agreements. Future interest payments on floating rate repurchase agreements were calculated using the December 31, 2025 interest rate.

Summarized Statements of Financial Condition

Current assets, less receivables from non-guarantor subsidiaries $ 3,061 $ 2,545

Current assets, less receivables from non-guarantor subsidiaries

Due from related parties, excluding non-guarantor subsidiaries 647 598

Due from related parties, excluding non-guarantor subsidiaries

Current liabilities, less payables to non-guarantor subsidiaries 934 521

Current liabilities, less payables to non-guarantor subsidiaries

Due to related parties, excluding non-guarantor subsidiaries 277 305

Due to related parties, excluding non-guarantor subsidiaries

Net income (loss) attributable to obligor group (204)

Net income (loss) attributable to obligor group

Due from non-guarantor subsidiaries $ 1,150 $ 160

Due to non-guarantor subsidiaries 1,364 1,193

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID No. 34 ) 141

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID No. 34 )

Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition 145

Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition

Consolidated Statements of Operations 147

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) 148

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss)

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 152

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 154

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 154

Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Note 9. Deferred Acquisition Costs, Deferred Sales Inducements and Value of Business Acquired 215

Note 9. Deferred Acquisition Costs, Deferred Sales Inducements and Value of Business Acquired

Note 19. Commitments and Contingencies 250

(In millions, except share data) As of December 31, 2025 As of December 31, 2024

Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,350 $ 2,692

Restricted cash and cash equivalents 19 3

Assets of consolidated variable interest entities

Restricted cash and cash equivalents 1,332 943

Investments in related parties 34,979 28,884

Deferred acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements and value of business acquired 8,634 7,173

Deferred acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements and value of business acquired

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.

Liabilities, Redeemable non-controlling interests and Equity

Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities $ 3,861 $ 3,616

Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities

Liabilities of consolidated variable interest entities

Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities 1,949 1,363

Interest sensitive contract liabilities 315,889 253,637

Payables for collateral on derivatives and securities to repurchase 11,085 11,652

Payables for collateral on derivatives and securities to repurchase

Redeemable non-controlling interests — 16

Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, 28,749,665 and 28,749,765 shares issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2025 and December 31, 2024, respectively 1,398 1,398

Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, 28,749,665 and 28,749,765 shares issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2025 and December 31, 2024, respectively

Common Stock, $ 0.00001 par value, 90,000,000,000 shares authorized, 578,981,398 and 565,738,933 shares issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2025 and December 31, 2024, respectively — —

Common Stock, $ 0.00001 par value, 90,000,000,000 shares authorized, 578,981,398 and 565,738,933 shares issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2025 and December 31, 2024, respectively

Additional paid in capital 16,954 15,327

Retained earnings (accumulated deficit) 7,634 6,022

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ( 2,645 ) ( 5,494 )

Total Apollo Global Management, Inc. Stockholders’ Equity 23,341 17,253

Total Apollo Global Management, Inc. Stockholders’ Equity

Total Liabilities, Redeemable non-controlling interests and Equity $ 460,949 $ 377,895

Total Liabilities, Redeemable non-controlling interests and Equity

(In millions, except per share data) 2025 2024 2023

Advisory and transaction fees, net 1,202 822 623

Investment income (loss) 1,143 1,305 1,032

Property management, development and other fees 32 — —

Net investment income 19,245 15,718 12,080

Investment related gains (losses) 1,544 2,045 1,428

Revenues of consolidated variable interest entities 2,470 1,822 1,441

Compensation and benefits 2,993 2,608 2,722

General, administrative and other 1,546 1,170 872

Interest sensitive contract benefits 12,089 8,949 6,229

Future policy and other policy benefits 4,433 3,054 14,434

Market risk benefits remeasurement (gains) losses 452 ( 102 ) 404

Amortization of deferred acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements and value of business acquired 1,242 941 688

Policy and other operating expenses 2,278 2,136 1,837

Net gains (losses) from investment activities ( 251 ) 58 7

Net gains (losses) from investment activities of consolidated variable interest entities 304 90 130

Other income (loss), net ( 136 ) 155 136

Total Other income (loss) ( 83 ) 303 273

Income (loss) before income tax (provision) benefit 6,677 7,435 5,586

Income tax (provision) benefit ( 1,276 ) ( 1,062 ) 923

Net (income) loss attributable to non-controlling interests ( 1,909 ) ( 1,796 ) ( 1,462 )

Net income (loss) attributable to Apollo Global Management, Inc. 3,492 4,577 5,047

Preferred stock dividends ( 97 ) ( 97 ) ( 46 )

Net income (loss) attributable to Apollo Global Management, Inc. common stockholders $ 3,395 $ 4,480 $ 5,001

Net income (loss) attributable to Apollo Global Management, Inc. common stockholders

Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders – Basic $ 5.58 $ 7.39 $ 8.32

Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders – Basic

Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders – Diluted $ 5.54 $ 7.33 $ 8.28

Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders – Diluted

Weighted average shares outstanding – Basic 589.5 586.1 581.4

Weighted average shares outstanding – Basic

Weighted average shares outstanding – Diluted 593.7 604.0 588.8

Weighted average shares outstanding – Diluted

Other comprehensive income (loss), before tax

Unrealized investment gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities 4,456 ( 1,121 ) 5,284

Unrealized investment gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities

Unrealized gains (losses) on hedging instruments 252 ( 51 ) ( 199 )

Unrealized gains (losses) on hedging instruments

Remeasurement gains (losses) on future policy benefits related to discount rate ( 612 ) 1,425 ( 2,236 )

Remeasurement gains (losses) on future policy benefits related to discount rate

Remeasurement gains (losses) on market risk benefits related to credit risk ( 103 ) ( 149 ) ( 374 )

Remeasurement gains (losses) on market risk benefits related to credit risk

Foreign currency translation and other adjustments 181 ( 101 ) 65

Foreign currency translation and other adjustments

Other comprehensive income (loss), before tax 4,174 3 2,540

Income tax provision (benefit) related to other comprehensive income (loss) 835 21 513

Income tax provision (benefit) related to other comprehensive income (loss)

Other comprehensive income (loss) 3,339 ( 18 ) 2,027

Comprehensive income (loss) 8,740 6,355 8,536

Comprehensive (income) loss attributable to non-controlling interests ( 2,399 ) ( 1,697 ) ( 1,732 )

Comprehensive (income) loss attributable to non-controlling interests

Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to Apollo Global Management, Inc. $ 6,341 $ 4,658 $ 6,804

Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to Apollo Global Management, Inc.

Apollo Global Management, Inc. Stockholders

(In millions, except share data) Common Stock Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock Additional Paid in Capital Retained Earnings (Accumulated Deficit) Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Total Apollo Global Management, Inc. Stockholders’ Equity (Deficit) Non-Controlling Interests Total Equity

Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)

Total Apollo Global Management, Inc. Stockholders’ Equity (Deficit)

Balance at January 1, 2023 570,276,188 $ — $ 14,982 $ ( 1,007 ) $ ( 7,335 ) $ 6,640 $ 7,726 $ 14,366

Other changes in equity of non-controlling interests — — — — — — ( 250 ) ( 250 )

Other changes in equity of non-controlling interests

Accretion of redeemable non-controlling interests — — ( 15 ) — — ( 15 ) — ( 15 )

Accretion of redeemable non-controlling interests

Equity issued in connection with Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock — 1,398 — — — 1,398 — 1,398

Equity issued in connection with Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock

Capital increase related to equity-based compensation — — 947 — — 947 — 947

Capital increase related to equity-based compensation

Capital contributions — — — — — — 2,863 2,863

Dividends/distributions — ( 46 ) ( 241 ) ( 771 ) — ( 1,058 ) ( 836 ) ( 1,894 )

Payments related to issuances of common stock for equity-based awards 5,135,731 — 41 ( 260 ) — ( 219 ) — ( 219 )

Payments related to issuances of common stock for equity-based awards

Repurchase of common stock ( 8,183,000 ) — ( 563 ) — — ( 563 ) — ( 563 )

Stock option exercises 534,013 — 21 — — 21 — 21

Redemption of subsidiary equity interests — — ( 5 ) — — ( 5 ) ( 575 ) ( 580 )

Redemption of subsidiary equity interests

Subsidiary issuance of equity interests — — 11 — 3 14 570 584

Net income (loss) — 46 — 5,001 — 5,047 1,421 6,468

Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — 1,757 1,757 270 2,027

Balance at December 31, 2023 567,762,932 $ 1,398 $ 15,249 $ 2,972 $ ( 5,575 ) $ 14,044 $ 11,189 $ 25,233

Balance at January 1, 2024 567,762,932 $ 1,398 $ 15,249 $ 2,972 $ ( 5,575 ) $ 14,044 $ 11,189 $ 25,233

Consolidation/deconsolidation of VIEs — — — — — — 53 53

Issuance of warrants — — 109 — — 109 — 109

Other changes in equity of non-controlling interests — — — — — — 13 13

Issuance of common stock related to equity transactions 742,742 — 84 — — 84 — 84

Issuance of common stock related to equity transactions

Accretion of redeemable non-controlling interests — — ( 3 ) — — ( 3 ) — ( 3 )

Capital increase related to equity-based compensation — — 649 — — 649 — 649

Capital contributions — — — — — — 3,136 3,136

Dividends/distributions — ( 97 ) — ( 1,092 ) — ( 1,189 ) ( 2,389 ) ( 3,578 )

Payments related to issuances of common stock for equity-based awards 4,696,064 — 52 ( 338 ) — ( 286 ) — ( 286 )

Repurchase of common stock ( 7,845,000 ) — ( 894 ) — — ( 894 ) — ( 894 )

Stock option exercises 382,195 — 15 — — 15 — 15

Subsidiary issuance of equity interests — — 66 — — 66 12 78

Net income (loss) — 97 — 4,480 — 4,577 1,796 6,373

Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — 81 81 ( 99 ) ( 18 )

Balance at December 31, 2024 565,738,933 $ 1,398 $ 15,327 $ 6,022 $ ( 5,494 ) $ 17,253 $ 13,711 $ 30,964

Balance at January 1, 2025 565,738,933 $ 1,398 $ 15,327 $ 6,022 $ ( 5,494 ) $ 17,253 $ 13,711 $ 30,964

Consolidation/deconsolidation of VIEs — — — — — — 1,598 1,598

Acquisition of Bridge 9,754,972 — 1,357 — — 1,357 489 1,846

Other changes in equity of non-controlling interests — — — — — — ( 2 ) ( 2 )

Issuance of common stock related to equity transactions 540,177 — — — — — — —

Accretion of redeemable non-controlling interests — — 5 — — 5 — 5

Issuance of common stock to donor-advised fund 1,213,003 — 200 — — 200 — 200

Issuance of common stock to donor-advised fund

Capital increase related to equity-based compensation — — 710 — — 710 — 710

Capital contributions — — — — — — 2,963 2,963

Dividends/distributions — ( 97 ) — ( 1,201 ) — ( 1,298 ) ( 1,984 ) ( 3,282 )

Payments related to issuances of common stock for equity-based awards 5,883,305 — 55 ( 582 ) — ( 527 ) — ( 527 )

Repurchase of common stock ( 5,708,804 ) — ( 773 ) — — ( 773 ) — ( 773 )

Stock option and warrant exercises 1,559,812 — 19 — — 19 — 19

Net income (loss) — 97 — 3,395 — 3,492 1,909 5,401

Other comprehensive income (loss) — — — — 2,849 2,849 490 3,339

Balance at December 31, 2025 578,981,398 $ 1,398 $ 16,954 $ 7,634 $ ( 2,645 ) $ 23,341 $ 19,174 $ 42,515

Net income (loss) $ 5,401 $ 6,373 $ 6,509

Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities:

Net investment income ( 1,371 ) ( 1,359 ) ( 1,140 )

Net recognized (gains) losses on investments and derivatives ( 3,472 ) ( 3,526 ) ( 2,073 )

Net recognized (gains) losses on investments and derivatives

Depreciation and amortization 1,431 1,075 803

Net amortization (accretion) of net investment premiums, discount and other ( 202 ) ( 123 ) 81

Net amortization (accretion) of net investment premiums, discount and other

Policy acquisition costs deferred ( 1,876 ) ( 1,507 ) ( 1,570 )

Other non-cash amounts included in net income (loss), net 593 92 ( 415 )

Other non-cash amounts included in net income (loss), net

Changes in consolidation ( 42 ) 248 ( 54 )

Changes in operating assets and liabilities:

Purchases of investments by funds and VIEs ( 6,891 ) ( 5,591 ) ( 5,744 )

Purchases of investments by funds and VIEs

Proceeds from sale of investments by funds and VIEs 6,685 4,714 5,464

Proceeds from sale of investments by funds and VIEs

Interest sensitive contract liabilities 7,678 5,677 3,917

Future policy benefits, market risk benefits and reinsurance recoverable ( 367 ) ( 1,969 ) 4,333

Future policy benefits, market risk benefits and reinsurance recoverable

Other assets and liabilities, net ( 1,110 ) ( 1,572 ) ( 4,815 )

Purchases of investments and contributions to equity method investments ( 9,198 ) ( 3,835 ) ( 4,650 )

Purchases of investments and contributions to equity method investments

Purchases of available-for-sale securities ( 93,472 ) ( 80,168 ) ( 37,263 )

Purchases of available-for-sale securities

Purchases of mortgage loans ( 41,406 ) ( 28,168 ) ( 20,972 )

Purchases of investment funds ( 4,276 ) ( 2,833 ) ( 2,678 )

Purchases of U.S. Treasury securities ( 455 ) — ( 490 )

Purchases of derivatives instruments and other investments ( 6,178 ) ( 5,032 ) ( 5,637 )

Purchases of derivatives instruments and other investments

Sales, maturities and repayments of investments and distributions from equity method investments 92,605 59,426 29,052

Sales, maturities and repayments of investments and distributions from equity method investments

Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 99 — —

Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired

Other investing activities, net ( 1,691 ) ( 1,191 ) 231

Net cash used in investing activities ( 63,972 ) ( 61,801 ) ( 42,407 )

Repayment of debt ( 4,644 ) ( 5,259 ) ( 3,780 )

Redemption of subsidiary equity interests — — ( 575 )

Repurchase of common stock ( 773 ) ( 890 ) ( 561 )

Common stock dividends ( 1,201 ) ( 1,092 ) ( 1,012 )

Preferred stock dividends ( 97 ) ( 97 ) ( 22 )

Distributions paid to non-controlling interests ( 1,925 ) ( 1,299 ) ( 766 )

Distributions paid to non-controlling interests

Contributions from non-controlling interests 2,934 3,132 2,863

Contributions from non-controlling interests

Distributions to redeemable non-controlling interests — — ( 1,072 )

Distributions to redeemable non-controlling interests

Issuance of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, net of issuance costs — — 1,398

Issuance of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, net of issuance costs

Deposits on investment-type policies and contracts 81,183 71,323 53,660

Deposits on investment-type policies and contracts

Withdrawals on investment-type policies and contracts ( 22,657 ) ( 19,119 ) ( 14,125 )

Withdrawals on investment-type policies and contracts

Subsidiary issuance of equity interests to non-controlling interests — — 632

Subsidiary issuance of equity interests to non-controlling interests

Net change in cash collateral posted for derivative transactions and securities to repurchase 340 4,116 829

Net change in cash collateral posted for derivative transactions and securities to repurchase

Other financing activities, net ( 178 ) ( 788 ) 257

Net cash provided by financing activities 60,200 57,972 42,638

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 5 ( 3 ) 10

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and cash held at consolidated variable interest entities 3,479 ( 579 ) 6,563

Cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and cash equivalents, and cash and cash equivalents held at consolidated variable interest entities, beginning of period 17,112 17,691 11,128

Cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and cash equivalents, and cash and cash equivalents held at consolidated variable interest entities, beginning of period

Cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and cash equivalents, and cash and cash equivalents held at consolidated variable interest entities, end of period $ 20,591 $ 17,112 $ 17,691

Cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and cash equivalents, and cash and cash equivalents held at consolidated variable interest entities, end of period

Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow Information

Investments received from settlements on reinsurance agreements — 48 1,129

Investments received from settlements on reinsurance agreements

Investments received at inception of reinsurance agreements — — 2,158

Investments received at inception of reinsurance agreements

Investments received from pension group annuity premiums 540 521 4,776

Investments received from pension group annuity premiums

Reduction in investments relating to recapture of reinsurance agreement — — 482

Reduction in investments relating to recapture of reinsurance agreement

Investments exchanged with third-party cedants — — 145

Investments exchanged with third-party cedants

Capital increases related to equity-based compensation 640 606 867

Capital increases related to equity-based compensation

Issuance of common stock related to equity transactions — 12 —

Subsidiary issuance of equity interest — 72 —

Issuance of common stock to donor-advise fund 200 — —

Issuance of common stock to donor-advise fund

Deposits on investment-type policies and contracts through reinsurance agreements, net assumed (ceded) ( 1,775 ) ( 4,057 ) 99

Deposits on investment-type policies and contracts through reinsurance agreements, net assumed (ceded)

Withdrawals on investment-type policies and contracts through reinsurance agreements, net assumed (ceded) 5,773 8,479 12,430

Withdrawals on investment-type policies and contracts through reinsurance agreements, net assumed (ceded)

Distribution of investments to non-controlling interests of consolidated VIEs — 1,107 —

Distribution of investments to non-controlling interests of consolidated VIEs

Borrowings of VIEs settled with investments — — 52

Borrowings of VIEs settled with investments

Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and cash equivalents, and cash and cash equivalents held at consolidated variable interest entities to the consolidated Statements of Financial Condition:

Cash and cash equivalents $ 18,344 $ 15,425 $ 15,768

Restricted cash and cash equivalents 1,351 946 1,763

Cash and cash equivalents held at consolidated variable interest entities 896 741 160

Cash and cash equivalents held at consolidated variable interest entities

Total cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and cash equivalents, and cash and cash equivalents held at consolidated variable interest entities $ 20,591 $ 17,112 $ 17,691

Total cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and cash equivalents, and cash and cash equivalents held at consolidated variable interest entities

(In millions, except share price data and exchange ratio)

Bridge Class A common stock purchased 55.8

Bridge Class B common stock purchased 62.7

Bridge LLC Class A common units purchased 76.7

Bridge LLC Class A common units purchased

Exchange ratio for Class A common stock and Class A common units 0.07081

Exchange ratio for Class A common stock and Class A common units

Exchange ratio for Class B common stock 0.00006

Shares of AGM common stock issued in exchange 9.4

Shares of AGM common stock issued in exchange

Value of AGM common stock issued in exchange $ 1,279

Value of AGM common stock issued in exchange

Fair value of estimated equity instruments assumed 1 28

Fair value of estimated equity instruments assumed 1

Purchase of certain non-controlling interests 50

Purchase of certain non-controlling interests

1 All outstanding Bridge equity awards were converted into AGM equity awards, of which $ 28 million was included as part of the consideration for the portion that was attributable to pre-combination services and $ 81 million will be treated as post-combination compensation expense over the applicable service period.

(In millions) Fair Value and Goodwill Calculation

Estimated fair value of total assets acquired, excluding goodwill 1,400

Estimated fair value of total assets acquired, excluding goodwill

Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities 280

Estimated fair value of total liabilities assumed 1,137

Estimated fair value of total liabilities assumed

Estimated fair value of net assets acquired, excluding goodwill 263

Estimated fair value of net assets acquired, excluding goodwill

Estimated fair value of net assets acquired less non-controlling interests, excluding goodwill ( 226 )

Estimated fair value of net assets acquired less non-controlling interests, excluding goodwill

Goodwill attributable to the Bridge acquisition $ 1,583

Goodwill attributable to the Bridge acquisition

These assets are valued using the multi-period excess earnings method, which derives value based on the present value of the cash flow attributable to the management contracts, less returns for contributory assets. Amortization of these assets is on a straight-line basis. This represents the Bridge trade name and was valued using the relief-from-royalty method considering publicly available third-party trade name royalty rates as well as expected premiums generated by the use of the trade name over its anticipated life. Amortization of this asset is on a straight-line basis.

These assets are valued using the multi-period excess earnings method, which derives value based on the present value of the cash flow attributable to the management contracts, less returns for contributory assets. Amortization of these assets is on a straight-line basis.

This represents the Bridge trade name and was valued using the relief-from-royalty method considering publicly available third-party trade name royalty rates as well as expected premiums generated by the use of the trade name over its anticipated life. Amortization of this asset is on a straight-line basis.

Fair value (in millions) Average useful life (in years)

Net income attributable to Apollo Global Management, Inc. 3,439 4,506

Net income attributable to Apollo Global Management, Inc.

Investments, at fair value $ 1,696 $ 1,384

Total Investments – Asset Management 6,226 6,086

AFS securities, at fair value 218,644 184,167

Trading securities, at fair value 6,863 2,156

Equity securities, at fair value 1,088 1,524

Mortgage loans, at fair value 93,404 64,536

Funds withheld at interest 19,628 23,916

Total Investments, including related parties – Retirement Services 356,060 291,167

Total Investments, including related parties – Retirement Services

Realized gains (losses) on sales of investments, net $ 15 $ ( 1 ) $ ( 9 )

Realized gains (losses) on sales of investments, net

Net change in unrealized gains (losses) due to changes in fair value ( 266 ) 59 16

Net change in unrealized gains (losses) due to changes in fair value

Net gains (losses) from investment activities $ ( 251 ) $ 58 $ 7

Performance allocations – consolidated VIEs 314 12

Performance allocations – consolidated VIEs

Total performance allocations $ 3,554 $ 3,274

Performance allocations, January 1, 2024 $ 2,941

Performance allocations, January 1, 2024

Fund distributions to the Company ( 928 )

Total performance allocations, December 31, 2024 $ 3,274

Total performance allocations, December 31, 2024

Change in fair value of funds and other 1 1,350

Change in fair value of funds and other 1

Fund distributions to the Company ( 1,070 )

Total performance allocations, December 31, 2025 $ 3,554

Total performance allocations, December 31, 2025

1 Other includes $ 320 million of performance allocations related to the Bridge acquisition during the third quarter of 2025.

(In millions) Amortized Cost Allowance for Credit Losses Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Fair Value

U.S. government and agencies $ 18,008 $ — $ 116 $ ( 1,226 ) $ 16,898

U.S. state, municipal and political subdivisions 954 — — ( 195 ) 759

Foreign governments 2,225 — 32 ( 598 ) 1,659

Corporate 97,166 ( 105 ) 1,291 ( 8,921 ) 89,431

Total AFS securities 202,116 ( 757 ) 3,330 ( 12,092 ) 192,597

Total AFS securities – related parties 26,052 ( 1 ) 209 ( 213 ) 26,047

Total AFS securities, including related parties $ 228,168 $ ( 758 ) $ 3,539 $ ( 12,305 ) $ 218,644

Total AFS securities, including related parties

U.S. government and agencies $ 8,413 $ — $ 8 $ ( 1,270 ) $ 7,151

U.S. state, municipal and political subdivisions 1,167 — — ( 246 ) 921

Foreign governments 2,082 — — ( 514 ) 1,568

Corporate 95,006 ( 175 ) 485 ( 11,731 ) 83,585

Total AFS securities 180,716 ( 708 ) 1,200 ( 15,844 ) 165,364

Total AFS securities – related parties 19,179 ( 1 ) 57 ( 432 ) 18,803

Total AFS securities, including related parties $ 199,895 $ ( 709 ) $ 1,257 $ ( 16,276 ) $ 184,167

Due after one year through five years 22,061 22,146

Due after five years through ten years 24,623 23,959

Due after one year through five years 1,133 1,167

Due after five years through ten years 819 826

Total AFS securities – related parties 26,052 26,047

Total AFS securities, including related parties $ 228,168 $ 218,644

Less than 12 months 12 months or more Total

(In millions) Fair Value Gross Unrealized Losses Fair Value Gross Unrealized Losses Fair Value Gross Unrealized Losses

U.S. government and agencies $ 5,987 $ ( 96 ) $ 4,068 $ ( 1,130 ) $ 10,055 $ ( 1,226 )

U.S. state, municipal and political subdivisions 37 ( 1 ) 707 ( 194 ) 744 ( 195 )

Foreign governments 84 ( 11 ) 1,326 ( 587 ) 1,410 ( 598 )

Corporate 13,107 ( 284 ) 38,209 ( 8,602 ) 51,316 ( 8,886 )

CLO 11,891 ( 59 ) 1,017 ( 45 ) 12,908 ( 104 )

ABS 6,355 ( 165 ) 4,873 ( 263 ) 11,228 ( 428 )

CMBS 1,663 ( 20 ) 1,446 ( 190 ) 3,109 ( 210 )

Total AFS securities 39,341 ( 638 ) 52,485 ( 11,101 ) 91,826 ( 11,739 )

Corporate 170 ( 1 ) 377 ( 12 ) 547 ( 13 )

ABS 2,069 ( 6 ) 3,076 ( 162 ) 5,145 ( 168 )

Total AFS securities – related parties 6,524 ( 27 ) 3,553 ( 176 ) 10,077 ( 203 )

Total AFS securities, including related parties $ 45,865 $ ( 665 ) $ 56,038 $ ( 11,277 ) $ 101,903 $ ( 11,942 )

U.S. government and agencies $ 3,010 $ ( 114 ) $ 3,462 $ ( 1,156 ) $ 6,472 $ ( 1,270 )

U.S. state, municipal and political subdivisions 67 ( 3 ) 842 ( 243 ) 909 ( 246 )

Foreign governments 830 ( 205 ) 738 ( 309 ) 1,568 ( 514 )

Corporate 19,530 ( 673 ) 44,051 ( 10,997 ) 63,581 ( 11,670 )

CLO 2,675 ( 48 ) 2,325 ( 215 ) 5,000 ( 263 )

ABS 9,361 ( 155 ) 4,070 ( 309 ) 13,431 ( 464 )

CMBS 1,868 ( 56 ) 1,773 ( 315 ) 3,641 ( 371 )

RMBS 825 ( 13 ) 1,261 ( 157 ) 2,086 ( 170 )

Total AFS securities 38,166 ( 1,267 ) 58,522 ( 13,701 ) 96,688 ( 14,968 )

Corporate 471 ( 4 ) 365 ( 26 ) 836 ( 30 )

ABS 2,533 ( 43 ) 3,355 ( 235 ) 5,888 ( 278 )

Total AFS securities – related parties 3,590 ( 57 ) 4,264 ( 317 ) 7,854 ( 374 )

Total AFS securities, including related parties $ 41,756 $ ( 1,324 ) $ 62,786 $ ( 14,018 ) $ 104,542 $ ( 15,342 )

Unrealized Loss Position Unrealized Loss Position 12 Months or More

Unrealized Loss Position 12 Months or More

(In millions) Beginning balance Initial credit losses Securities sold during the period Additions (reductions) to previously impaired securities Ending balance

Additions (reductions) to previously impaired securities

Corporate $ 175 $ — $ ( 29 ) $ ( 41 ) $ 105

Total AFS securities 708 55 ( 71 ) 65 757

AFS securities – related parties, ABS 1 — — — 1

Total AFS securities, including related parties $ 709 $ 55 $ ( 71 ) $ 65 $ 758

Total AFS securities 590 118 ( 41 ) 41 708

Total AFS securities, including related parties $ 591 $ 118 $ ( 41 ) $ 41 $ 709

Funds withheld at interest 964 1,318 1,752

Investment expenses ( 197 ) ( 99 ) ( 91 )

Net investment income $ 19,245 $ 15,718 $ 12,080

Gross realized gains on investment activity $ 2,742 $ 977 $ 926

Gross realized gains on investment activity

Gross realized losses on investment activity ( 1,236 ) ( 1,979 ) ( 779 )

Gross realized losses on investment activity

Net realized investment gains (losses) on AFS securities 1,506 ( 1,002 ) 147

Net realized investment gains (losses) on AFS securities

Net recognized investment gains (losses) on trading securities 380 ( 170 ) 66

Net recognized investment gains (losses) on trading securities

Net recognized investment gains on equity securities 55 22 13

Net recognized investment gains on equity securities

Net recognized investment gains (losses) on mortgage loans 2,320 ( 132 ) 207

Net recognized investment gains (losses) on mortgage loans

Derivative gains (losses) ( 1,569 ) 2,205 2,135

Provision for credit losses ( 111 ) ( 181 ) ( 335 )

Other gains (losses) ( 1,037 ) 1,303 ( 805 )

Investment related gains (losses) $ 1,544 $ 2,045 $ 1,428

1 Includes the effects of recognized gains or losses on AFS securities associated with designated hedges.

Payables for repurchase agreements $ 6,043 $ 5,716

(In millions) Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value

U.S. government and agencies $ 2,780 $ 2,787 $ 3,253 $ 2,693

Total securities pledged under repurchase agreements $ 6,528 $ 6,225 $ 6,841 $ 5,878

Total securities pledged under repurchase agreements

Commercial mortgage loans $ 38,869 $ 32,544

Commercial mortgage loans under development 1,787 1,987

Commercial mortgage loans under development

Total commercial mortgage loans 40,656 34,531

Residential mortgage loans 55,613 35,223

Residential mortgage loans 56,473 34,683

(In millions, except percentages) Fair Value Percentage of Total Fair Value Percentage of Total

Apartment $ 15,458 39.5 % $ 11,746 36.2 %

Office building 4,530 11.6 % 4,162 12.8 %

Other commercial 5,471 14.0 % 4,676 14.4 %

Total commercial mortgage loans $ 39,071 100.0 % $ 32,432 100.0 %

East North Central $ 1,883 4.8 % $ 1,546 4.8 %

Middle Atlantic 9,323 23.9 % 8,386 25.9 %

South Atlantic 6,919 17.7 % 6,198 19.1 %

West South Central 3,175 8.1 % 1,971 6.1 %

Total U.S. region 31,303 80.1 % 26,968 83.2 %

Other international 1 4,683 12.0 % 3,183 9.8 %

Total international region 7,768 19.9 % 5,464 16.8 %

1 Represents all other countries, with each individual country comprising less than 5% of the portfolio.

Total U.S. residential mortgage loan percentage 91.3 % 90.9 %

Total U.S. residential mortgage loan percentage

Total residential mortgage loan percentage 100.0 % 100.0 %

Total residential mortgage loan percentage

1 Represents all other states or countries, with each individual state or country comprising less than 5% of the portfolio.

Retirement services platforms 1,538 5.9 % 1,317 6.7 %

Total investment funds – related parties 2,149 8.2 % 1,853 9.5 %

Total investment funds – related parties

Origination platforms 9,067 34.7 % 6,347 32.3 %

Total investment funds – consolidated VIEs 23,888 91.4 % 17,660 89.9 %

Total investment funds – consolidated VIEs

Total investment funds, including related parties and consolidated VIEs $ 26,145 100.0 % $ 19,620 100.0 %

Total investment funds, including related parties and consolidated VIEs

Investment-grade ABS debt issued by AP Grange Holdings, LLC $ 5,080

Investment-grade ABS debt issued by AP Grange Holdings, LLC

Investments in Atlas Securitized Products Holdings LP (Atlas) 1 3,304

Investments in Atlas Securitized Products Holdings LP (Atlas) 1

Investment-grade ABS debt issued by Fox Hedge L.P. 3,171

Investment-grade ABS debt issued by Fox Hedge L.P.

Investment-grade ABS debt issued by Apollo Multi-Asset Prime Securities (AMAPS) 2, LLC 1 3,000

Investment-grade ABS debt issued by Apollo Multi-Asset Prime Securities (AMAPS) 2, LLC 1

Investment-grade ABS debt issued by AP Alkaios (Luxembourg) S.à.r.l. 2,791

Investment-grade ABS debt issued by AP Alkaios (Luxembourg) S.à.r.l.

Investment-grade ABS debt issued by AMAPS 1, LLC 1 2,550

Investment-grade ABS debt issued by AMAPS 1, LLC 1

Investment-grade ABS debt issued by AP Grange Holdings, LLC $ 4,661

Investment-grade ABS debt issued by Fox Hedge L.P. 2,924

1 Amounts are representative of single issuer risk and may only include a portion of the total investments associated with a related party. For Atlas, see note 18 for additional information.

Notional Amount Fair Value Notional Amount Fair Value

(In millions) Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities

Swaps 26,437 $ 560 $ 868 15,669 $ 938 $ 211

Interest rate swaps 4,347 86 242 4,506 — 654

Forwards on net investments 234 — — 218 11 —

Interest rate swaps 31,252 129 30 24,885 55 138

Total derivatives designated as hedges 856 1,174 1,335 1,008

Equity options 97,259 6,905 170 85,452 5,002 126

Foreign currency swaps 19,248 230 744 14,908 600 199

Interest rate swaps and forwards 14,606 72 295 3,255 67 124

Foreign currency forwards 47,486 857 3,356 39,598 1,054 2,083

Funds withheld, including related parties ( 2,765 ) 150 ( 3,650 ) 4

Funds withheld, including related parties

Interest sensitive contract liabilities — 14,749 — 11,242

Total derivatives not designated as hedges 5,569 19,467 3,169 13,794

Total derivatives not designated as hedges

Total derivatives $ 6,425 $ 20,641 $ 4,504 $ 14,802

(In millions) Carrying amount of the hedged liabilities Cumulative amount of fair value hedging gains (losses) 1 Carrying amount of the hedged liabilities Cumulative amount of fair value hedging gains (losses)

Carrying amount of the hedged liabilities

Cumulative amount of fair value hedging gains (losses) 1

Cumulative amount of fair value hedging gains (losses)

Foreign currency interest rate swaps $ 4,271 $ 77 $ 3,946 $ 488

Interest rate swaps 19,175 ( 20 ) 17,873 130

1 Excludes gains (losses) related to foreign currency risk.

(In millions) Derivatives Hedged items Net Recognized in income through amortization approach Recognized in income through changes in fair value

Recognized in income through amortization approach

Recognized in income through changes in fair value

Foreign currency forwards $ ( 330 ) $ 323 $ ( 7 ) $ 32 $ —

Foreign currency swaps ( 1,075 ) 1,076 1 — —

Foreign currency interest rate swaps 470 ( 470 ) — — —

Foreign currency interest rate swaps 95 ( 93 ) 2 — —

Foreign currency forwards 220 ( 238 ) ( 18 ) 43 19

Foreign currency swaps 513 ( 520 ) ( 7 ) — —

Foreign currency interest rate swaps ( 160 ) 148 ( 12 ) — —

Foreign currency interest rate swaps 87 ( 85 ) 2 — —

Foreign currency forwards ( 169 ) 167 ( 2 ) 82 20

Foreign currency swaps ( 159 ) 169 10 — —

Foreign currency interest rate swaps 282 ( 269 ) 13 — —

Interest rate swaps 111 ( 118 ) ( 7 ) — —

Foreign currency interest rate swaps 57 ( 60 ) ( 3 ) — —

Foreign currency forwards $ 48 $ ( 23 ) $ ( 45 )

Foreign currency swaps 34 ( 29 ) ( 187 )

Foreign currency swaps ( 1,421 ) 456 ( 113 )

Interest rate swaps and forwards and other swaps 6 ( 112 ) 5

Interest rate swaps and forwards and other swaps

Foreign currency forwards ( 1,712 ) ( 775 ) ( 495 )

Embedded derivatives on funds withheld 321 2 934

Amounts recognized in investment related gains (losses) ( 864 ) 1,564 1,968

Amounts recognized in investment related gains (losses)

Embedded derivatives in indexed annuity products 1 ( 1,047 ) ( 174 ) ( 1,443 )

Embedded derivatives in indexed annuity products 1

Total gains (losses) on derivatives not designated as hedges $ ( 1,911 ) $ 1,390 $ 525

Total gains (losses) on derivatives not designated as hedges

1 Included in interest sensitive contract benefits on the consolidated statements of operations.

Gross amounts not offset on the consolidated statements of financial condition

(In millions) Gross amount recognized 1 Financial instruments 2 Collateral (received)/pledged Net amount Off-balance sheet securities collateral 3 Net amount after securities collateral

Off-balance sheet securities collateral 3

Derivative assets $ 9,190 $ ( 2,602 ) $ ( 5,908 ) $ 680 $ ( 889 ) $ ( 209 )

Derivative liabilities ( 5,742 ) 2,602 2,491 ( 649 ) 561 ( 88 )

Derivative assets $ 8,154 $ ( 2,209 ) $ ( 5,922 ) $ 23 $ — $ 23

Derivative liabilities ( 3,556 ) 2,209 1,333 ( 14 ) 2 ( 12 )

1 The gross amounts of recognized derivative assets and derivative liabilities are reported on the consolidated statements of financial condition. As of December 31, 2025 and December 31, 2024, amounts not subject to master netting or similar agreements were immaterial.

2 Represents amounts offsetting derivative assets and derivative liabilities that are subject to an enforceable master netting agreement or similar agreement that are not netted against the gross derivative assets or gross derivative liabilities for presentation on the consolidated statements of financial condition.

3 For non-cash collateral received, Athene does not recognize the collateral on the consolidated statements of financial condition unless the obligor (transferor) has defaulted under the terms of the secured contract and is no longer entitled to redeem the pledged asset. Amounts do not include any excess of collateral pledged or received.

Investments, at fair value $ 3,078 $ 2,794

Total Investments – Asset Management $ 3,509 $ 2,806

Net gains (losses) from investment activities $ 287 $ 39 $ 67

Interest and other expenses ( 114 ) ( 113 ) ( 113 )

Net gains (losses) from investment activities of consolidated variable interest entities $ 304 $ 90 $ 130

(In millions, except percentages) Principal Outstanding Weighted Average Interest Rate Weighted Average Remaining Maturity in Years Principal Outstanding Weighted Average Interest Rate Weighted Average Remaining Maturity in Years

Weighted Average Remaining Maturity in Years

Subscription lines 1 $ 1,443 5.66 % 0.24 $ 1,198 6.84 % 0.06

Total – Asset Management $ 1,443 $ 1,198

1 The subscription lines of the consolidated VIEs are collateralized by assets held by each respective vehicle and assets of one vehicle may not be used to satisfy the liabilities of another vehicle.

Investment expenses and other ( 86 ) ( 22 ) 1

Net recognized investment gains on trading securities 30 17 10

Net recognized investment gains on trading securities

Net recognized investment gains (losses) on mortgage loans 27 ( 35 ) ( 22 )

Net recognized investment gains on investment funds 2,036 1,542 1,228

Net recognized investment gains on investment funds

Investment related gains (losses) 2,155 1,518 1,187

Revenues of consolidated variable interest entities $ 2,470 $ 1,822 $ 1,441

1 Represents Apollo’s direct investment in those entities in which it holds a significant variable interest and certain other investments. Additionally, cumulative performance allocations are subject to reversal in the event of future losses.

2 Some amounts included are a quarter in arrears.

(In millions) Carrying Value Maximum Loss Exposure Carrying Value Maximum Loss Exposure

Investment funds $ 108 $ 458 $ 107 $ 987

Investment in related parties – investment funds 2,149 5,859 1,853 3,226

Investment in related parties – investment funds

Assets of consolidated VIEs – investment funds 23,888 29,804 17,660 23,488

Assets of consolidated VIEs – investment funds

Investment in fixed maturity securities 84,397 87,995 72,523 74,797

Investment in related parties – fixed maturity securities 24,184 26,717 17,239 21,793

Investment in related parties – fixed maturity securities

Investment in related parties – equity securities 266 266 234 234

Investment in related parties – equity securities

Total non-consolidated investments $ 134,992 $ 151,099 $ 109,616 $ 124,525

(In millions) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 NAV Total

Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,350 $ — $ — $ — $ 3,350

Restricted cash and cash equivalents 19 — — — 19

Cash and cash equivalents of consolidated VIEs 327 — — — 327

Cash and cash equivalents of consolidated VIEs

Investments of consolidated VIEs 1 5 2,939 133 3,078

Total Assets – Asset Management 3,929 87 4,158 318 8,492

U.S. government and agencies 16,898 — — — 16,898

U.S. state, municipal and political subdivisions — 759 — — 759

Foreign governments 516 1,131 12 — 1,659

Total AFS securities 17,424 145,824 29,349 — 192,597

Funds withheld at interest – embedded derivative — — ( 2,409 ) — ( 2,409 )

Funds withheld at interest – embedded derivative

Cash and cash equivalents 14,994 — — — 14,994

Restricted cash and cash equivalents 1,332 — — — 1,332

Total AFS securities – related parties — 8,237 17,810 — 26,047

Funds withheld at interest – embedded derivative — — ( 356 ) — ( 356 )

Reinsurance recoverable — — 1,911 — 1,911

Total Assets – Retirement Services 34,734 171,812 147,957 23,602 378,105

Total Assets $ 38,663 $ 171,899 $ 152,115 $ 23,920 $ 386,597

Contingent consideration obligations 4 $ — $ — $ 72 $ — $ 72

Total Liabilities – Asset Management — 7 72 — 79

AmerUs Life Insurance Company (“AmerUs”) Closed Block — — 1,085 — 1,085

AmerUs Life Insurance Company (“AmerUs”) Closed Block

Indianapolis Life Insurance Company (“ILICO”) Closed Block and life benefits — — 530 — 530

Indianapolis Life Insurance Company (“ILICO”) Closed Block and life benefits

Market risk benefits 5 — — 4,930 — 4,930

Derivative liabilities 9 5,733 — — 5,742

Total Liabilities – Retirement Services 9 5,733 22,314 — 28,056

Total Liabilities $ 9 $ 5,740 $ 22,386 $ — $ 28,135

Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,692 $ — $ — $ — $ 2,692

Restricted cash and cash equivalents 3 — — — 3

Cash and cash equivalents of consolidated VIEs 158 — — — 158

Investments of consolidated VIEs 191 111 2,258 234 2,794

Total Assets – Asset Management 3,282 173 3,366 306 7,127

U.S. government and agencies 7,149 2 — — 7,151

U.S. state, municipal and political subdivisions — 921 — — 921

Total AFS securities 7,818 136,411 21,135 — 165,364

Funds withheld at interest – embedded derivative — — ( 3,035 ) — ( 3,035 )

Cash and cash equivalents 12,733 — — — 12,733

Restricted cash and cash equivalents 943 — — — 943

Total AFS securities – related parties — 7,258 11,545 — 18,803

Funds withheld at interest – embedded derivative — — ( 615 ) — ( 615 )

Reinsurance recoverable — — 1,661 — 1,661

Total Assets – Retirement Services 22,414 155,457 104,337 16,890 299,098

Total Assets $ 25,696 $ 155,630 $ 107,703 $ 17,196 $ 306,225

Contingent consideration obligations 4 $ — $ — $ 67 $ — $ 67

Total Liabilities – Asset Management — — 67 — 67

ILICO Closed Block and life benefits — — 538 — 538

Market risk benefits 5 — — 4,028 — 4,028

Derivative liabilities 19 3,536 1 — 3,556

Total Liabilities – Retirement Services 19 3,536 17,878 — 21,433

Total Liabilities $ 19 $ 3,536 $ 17,945 $ — $ 21,500

1 Investments as of December 31, 2025 and December 31, 2024 excludes $ 235 million and $ 248 million, respectively, of performance allocations classified as Level 3 related to certain investments for which the Company elected the fair value option. The Company’s policy is to account for performance allocations as investments.

2 Due from related parties represents a receivable from a fund.

3 Derivative assets and derivative liabilities are presented as a component of Other assets and Other liabilities, respectively, in the consolidated statements of financial condition.

4 Other liabilities includes profit sharing payable related to contingent obligations classified as Level 3.

5 Other assets consist of market risk benefits assets. See note 11 for additional information on market risk benefits assets and liabilities valuation methodology and additional fair value disclosures.

Fair Value (In millions) Valuation Technique Unobservable Inputs Ranges Weighted Average

Investments $ 850 Discounted cash flow Discount rate 5.7 % – 52.8 % 17.3 % 1

154 Direct capitalization Capitalization rate 7.0 % 7.0 %

193 Adjusted transaction value N/A N/A N/A

Due from related parties 15 Discounted cash flow Discount rate 14.8 % 14.8 %

Derivative assets 7 Option model Volatility rate 40.0 % 40.0 %

Bank loans 357 Discounted cash flow Discount rate 6.7 % – 13.9 % 8.9 % 1

740 Adjusted transaction value N/A N/A N/A

Equity securities 392 Discounted cash flow Discount rate 10.0 % – 13.5 % 12.8 % 1

1,014 Adjusted transaction value N/A N/A N/A

6 Option model Volatility rate 100.0 % – 105.0 % 102.9 % 1

Bonds 430 Adjusted transaction value N/A N/A N/A

AFS, trading and equity securities 31,915 Discounted cash flow Discount rate 2.8 % – 22.9 % 6.4 % 1

Mortgage loans 2 95,524 Discounted cash flow Discount rate 1.0 % – 31.5 % 6.5 % 1

20 Recoverability Estimated proceeds N/A N/A

Investment funds 2 1,313 Discounted cash flow Discount rate 13.0 % – 14.0 % 13.1 % 1

286 Recoverability Estimated proceeds N/A N/A

5 Reported net asset value Reported net asset value N/A N/A

Contingent consideration obligations 72 Discounted cash flow Discount rate 20.0 % – 24.0 % 22.9 % 1

Interest sensitive contract liabilities – indexed annuities embedded derivatives 14,749 Discounted cash flow Nonperformance risk 0.4 % – 1.0 % 0.6 % 3

Interest sensitive contract liabilities – indexed annuities embedded derivatives

1 Unobservable inputs were weighted based on the fair value of the investments included in the range.

3 The nonperformance risk weighted average is based on the projected cash flows attributable to the embedded derivative.

4 The option budget and surrender rate weighted averages are calculated based on projected account values.

Fair Value (In millions) Valuation Techniques Unobservable Inputs Ranges Weighted Average

Investments $ 765 Discounted cash flow Discount rate 13.5 % – 52.8 % 17.8 % 1

128 Direct capitalization Capitalization rate 6.7 % 6.7 %

159 Adjusted transaction value N/A N/A N/A

Due from related parties 27 Discounted cash flow Discount rate 14.0 % 14.0 %

Derivative assets 29 Option model Volatility rate 52.5 % 52.5 %

Bank loans 168 Discounted cash flow Discount rate 5.6 % – 23.4 % 9.0 % 1

179 Adjusted transaction value N/A N/A N/A

Equity securities 495 Dividend discount model Discount rate 14.1 % 14.1 %

417 Discounted cash flow Discount rate 8.3 % – 13.3 % 13.3 % 1

69 Adjusted transaction value N/A N/A N/A

27 Option model Volatility rate 84.8 % – 117.5 % 110.7 % 1

Bonds 412 Discounted cash flow Discount rate 6.6 % – 11.7 % 7.0 % 1

491 Adjusted transaction value N/A N/A N/A

AFS, trading and equity securities 28,655 Discounted cash flow Discount rate 4.7 % – 20.0 % 7.1 % 1

Mortgage loans 2 67,115 Discounted cash flow Discount rate 1.8 % – 43.1 % 6.7 % 1

Investment funds 2 1,909 Discounted cash flow Discount rate 6.6 % – 14.0 % 10.8 % 1

Contingent consideration obligations 67 Discounted cash flow Discount rate 20.0 % – 25.0 % 23.6 % 1

Interest sensitive contract liabilities – indexed annuities embedded derivatives 11,242 Discounted cash flow Nonperformance risk 0.4 % – 1.1 % 0.7 % 3

Total realized and unrealized gains (losses)

(In millions) Beginning Balance Included in Income Included in OCI Net Purchases, Issuances, Sales and Settlements Net Transfers In (Out) Ending Balance Total Gains (Losses) Included in Earnings 1 Total Gains (Losses) Included in OCI 1

Net Purchases, Issuances, Sales and Settlements

Total Gains (Losses) Included in Earnings 1

Investments and derivative assets $ 1,081 $ 44 $ — $ 79 $ — $ 1,204 $ — $ —

Investments of consolidated VIEs 2,258 370 — 399 ( 88 ) 2,939 ( 31 ) —

Total Level 3 assets – Asset Management $ 3,339 $ 414 $ — $ 478 $ ( 88 ) $ 4,143 $ ( 31 ) $ —

Foreign governments $ 29 $ ( 1 ) $ — $ ( 16 ) $ — $ 12 $ — $ —

Corporate 4,321 49 38 3,801 ( 1,559 ) 6,650 29 56

ABS 16,529 114 487 10,764 ( 5,687 ) 22,207 48 435

RMBS 256 18 ( 1 ) 232 ( 66 ) 439 — ( 1 )

Trading securities 22 ( 2 ) — 12 ( 14 ) 18 3 —

Equity securities 27 ( 1 ) — ( 18 ) — 8 ( 1 ) —

Mortgage loans 63,239 2,202 — 26,477 — 91,918 2,110 —

Funds withheld at interest – embedded derivative ( 3,035 ) 626 — — — ( 2,409 ) — —

Short-term investments 169 — — ( 150 ) ( 19 ) — — —

Other investments 895 7 — ( 141 ) — 761 2 —

Corporate 1,108 — ( 7 ) 96 3 1,200 — ( 7 )

ABS 9,741 5 101 5,958 ( 528 ) 15,277 — 57

Trading securities 573 ( 9 ) — ( 186 ) 76 454 11 —

Mortgage loans 1,297 76 — 113 — 1,486 75 —

Investment funds 1,139 174 — 5 — 1,318 174 —

Funds withheld at interest – embedded derivative ( 615 ) 259 — — — ( 356 ) — —

Reinsurance recoverable 1,661 74 — 176 — 1,911 — —

Trading securities 1,954 221 — ( 289 ) 551 2,437 155 —

Mortgage loans 2,579 149 — ( 587 ) ( 1 ) 2,140 106 —

Investment funds 770 ( 9 ) — ( 498 ) 23 286 ( 2 ) —

Other investments 103 3 — 507 ( 613 ) — — —

Total Level 3 assets – Retirement Services $ 104,024 $ 3,977 $ 614 $ 46,306 $ ( 7,178 ) $ 147,743 $ 2,755 $ 562

Total Level 3 assets – Retirement Services

Contingent consideration obligations $ 67 $ 23 $ — $ ( 18 ) $ — $ 72 $ — $ —

Total Level 3 liabilities – Asset Management $ 67 $ 23 $ — $ ( 18 ) $ — $ 72 $ — $ —

Total Level 3 liabilities – Asset Management

Embedded derivative $ ( 11,242 ) $ ( 1,047 ) $ — $ ( 2,460 ) $ — $ ( 14,749 ) $ — $ —

Universal life benefits ( 742 ) ( 24 ) — — — ( 766 ) — —

AmerUs Closed Block ( 1,102 ) 17 — — — ( 1,085 ) — —

ILICO Closed Block and life benefits ( 538 ) 8 — — — ( 530 ) — —

Derivative liabilities ( 1 ) 1 — — — — — —

Other liabilities ( 225 ) ( 115 ) — 86 — ( 254 ) — —

Total Level 3 liabilities – Retirement Services $ ( 13,850 ) $ ( 1,160 ) $ — $ ( 2,374 ) $ — $ ( 17,384 ) $ — $ —

Total Level 3 liabilities – Retirement Services

1 Related to instruments held at end of period.

Investments and derivative assets $ 1,201 $ ( 24 ) $ — $ ( 28 ) $ ( 68 ) $ 1,081 $ 26 $ —

Investments of consolidated VIEs 1,492 ( 15 ) — 579 202 2,258 ( 17 ) —

Total Level 3 assets – Asset Management $ 2,693 $ ( 39 ) $ — $ 551 $ 134 $ 3,339 $ 9 $ —

Foreign governments $ 40 $ — $ 1 $ ( 12 ) $ — $ 29 $ — $ 1

Corporate 2,525 ( 20 ) 36 2,815 ( 1,035 ) 4,321 ( 18 ) 38

ABS 6,943 47 ( 128 ) 9,812 ( 145 ) 16,529 ( 3 ) ( 130 )

Trading securities 28 1 — ( 21 ) 14 22 ( 1 ) —

Mortgage loans 44,115 ( 192 ) — 19,316 — 63,239 ( 145 ) —

Funds withheld at interest – embedded derivative ( 3,379 ) 344 — — — ( 3,035 ) — —

Short-term investments 105 ( 1 ) ( 1 ) 145 ( 79 ) 169 — ( 1 )

Other investments 630 ( 24 ) — 289 — 895 ( 6 ) —

Corporate 1,171 ( 2 ) 40 53 ( 154 ) 1,108 — 24

ABS 7,826 48 ( 12 ) 1,879 — 9,741 — ( 14 )

Trading securities 838 ( 1 ) — ( 264 ) — 573 ( 3 ) —

Equity securities 255 ( 16 ) — ( 5 ) — 234 ( 15 ) —

Mortgage loans 1,281 17 — ( 1 ) — 1,297 17 —

Investment funds 1,082 ( 49 ) — 106 — 1,139 ( 49 ) —

Funds withheld at interest – embedded derivative ( 721 ) 106 — — — ( 615 ) — —

Other investments 343 ( 12 ) — — — 331 ( 12 ) —

Reinsurance recoverable 1,367 ( 61 ) — 355 — 1,661 — —

Trading securities 1,852 ( 80 ) — 50 132 1,954 ( 87 ) —

Mortgage loans 2,173 ( 62 ) — 447 21 2,579 ( 64 ) —

Investment funds 977 ( 68 ) — 331 ( 470 ) 770 ( 16 ) —

Other investments 101 ( 10 ) — 32 ( 20 ) 103 ( 9 ) —

Total Level 3 assets – Retirement Services $ 70,370 $ ( 24 ) $ ( 56 ) $ 35,588 $ ( 1,854 ) $ 104,024 $ ( 411 ) $ ( 69 )

Contingent consideration obligations $ 93 $ 79 $ — $ ( 105 ) $ — $ 67 $ — $ —

Total Level 3 liabilities – Asset Management $ 93 $ 79 $ — $ ( 105 ) $ — $ 67 $ — $ —

Embedded derivative $ ( 9,059 ) $ ( 174 ) $ — $ ( 2,009 ) $ — $ ( 11,242 ) $ — $ —

Universal life benefits ( 834 ) 92 — — — ( 742 ) — —

AmerUs Closed Block ( 1,178 ) 76 — — — ( 1,102 ) — —

ILICO Closed Block and life benefits ( 522 ) ( 16 ) — — — ( 538 ) — —

Derivative liabilities ( 1 ) — — — — ( 1 ) — —

Other liabilities ( 330 ) ( 13 ) — 54 64 ( 225 ) — —

Total Level 3 liabilities – Retirement Services $ ( 11,924 ) $ ( 35 ) $ — $ ( 1,955 ) $ 64 $ ( 13,850 ) $ — $ —

(In millions) Purchases Issuances Sales Settlements Net Purchases, Issuances, Sales and Settlements Transfers In Transfers Out Net Transfers In (Out)

Investments and derivative assets $ 95 $ — $ ( 16 ) $ — $ 79 $ — $ — $ —

Investments of consolidated VIEs 5,338 — ( 4,939 ) — 399 43 ( 131 ) ( 88 )

Total Level 3 assets – Asset Management $ 5,433 $ — $ ( 4,955 ) $ — $ 478 $ 43 $ ( 131 ) $ ( 88 )

Foreign governments $ — $ — $ — $ ( 16 ) $ ( 16 ) $ — $ — $ —

Corporate 4,607 — ( 189 ) ( 617 ) 3,801 253 ( 1,812 ) ( 1,559 )

ABS 13,869 — ( 180 ) ( 2,925 ) 10,764 479 ( 6,166 ) ( 5,687 )

RMBS 315 — ( 1 ) ( 82 ) 232 — ( 66 ) ( 66 )

Trading securities 15 — — ( 3 ) 12 — ( 14 ) ( 14 )

Equity securities — — — ( 18 ) ( 18 ) — — —

Mortgage loans 41,074 — ( 397 ) ( 14,200 ) 26,477 — — —

Short-term investments 30 — — ( 180 ) ( 150 ) — ( 19 ) ( 19 )

Other investments 199 — — ( 340 ) ( 141 ) — — —

ABS 10,620 — ( 179 ) ( 4,483 ) 5,958 271 ( 799 ) ( 528 )

Trading securities 104 — ( 91 ) ( 199 ) ( 186 ) 76 — 76

Mortgage loans 238 — ( 15 ) ( 110 ) 113 — — —

Reinsurance recoverable — 191 — ( 15 ) 176 — — —

Trading securities 617 — ( 906 ) — ( 289 ) 574 ( 23 ) 551

Mortgage loans 177 — ( 462 ) ( 302 ) ( 587 ) — ( 1 ) ( 1 )

Investment funds — — ( 498 ) — ( 498 ) — 23 23

Other investments 580 — ( 73 ) — 507 — ( 613 ) ( 613 )

Total Level 3 assets – Retirement Services $ 72,980 $ 191 $ ( 2,991 ) $ ( 23,874 ) $ 46,306 $ 2,326 $ ( 9,504 ) $ ( 7,178 )

Contingent consideration obligations $ — $ — $ — $ ( 18 ) $ ( 18 ) $ — $ — $ —

Total Level 3 liabilities – Asset Management $ — $ — $ — $ ( 18 ) $ ( 18 ) $ — $ — $ —

Interest sensitive contract liabilities – embedded derivative $ — $ ( 3,463 ) $ — $ 1,003 $ ( 2,460 ) $ — $ — $ —

Interest sensitive contract liabilities – embedded derivative

Total Level 3 liabilities – Retirement Services $ — $ ( 3,463 ) $ — $ 1,089 $ ( 2,374 ) $ — $ — $ —

Investments and derivative assets $ 36 $ — $ ( 64 ) $ — $ ( 28 ) $ — $ ( 68 ) $ ( 68 )

Investments of consolidated VIEs 4,009 — ( 3,430 ) — 579 452 ( 250 ) 202

Total Level 3 assets – Asset Management $ 4,045 $ — $ ( 3,494 ) $ — $ 551 $ 452 $ ( 318 ) $ 134

Foreign governments $ — $ — $ — $ ( 12 ) $ ( 12 ) $ — $ — $ —

Corporate 3,146 — ( 41 ) ( 290 ) 2,815 166 ( 1,201 ) ( 1,035 )

ABS 11,886 — ( 423 ) ( 1,651 ) 9,812 769 ( 914 ) ( 145 )

Trading securities — — — ( 21 ) ( 21 ) 14 — 14

Equity securities 2 — ( 1 ) — 1 9 ( 9 ) —

Mortgage loans 27,596 — ( 106 ) ( 8,174 ) 19,316 — — —

Short-term investments 172 — ( 6 ) ( 21 ) 145 — ( 79 ) ( 79 )

Corporate 63 — ( 1 ) ( 9 ) 53 — ( 154 ) ( 154 )

ABS 7,197 — ( 504 ) ( 4,814 ) 1,879 — — —

Trading securities 4 — — ( 268 ) ( 264 ) — — —

Equity securities — — ( 5 ) — ( 5 ) — — —

Mortgage loans 87 — — ( 88 ) ( 1 ) — — —

Reinsurance recoverable — 359 — ( 4 ) 355 — — —

Trading securities 235 — ( 178 ) ( 7 ) 50 220 ( 88 ) 132

Mortgage loans 558 — — ( 111 ) 447 21 — 21

Investment funds 341 — ( 10 ) — 331 — ( 470 ) ( 470 )

Other investments 56 — ( 24 ) — 32 — ( 20 ) ( 20 )

Total Level 3 assets – Retirement Services $ 52,014 $ 359 $ ( 1,299 ) $ ( 15,486 ) $ 35,588 $ 1,200 $ ( 3,054 ) $ ( 1,854 )

Contingent consideration obligations $ — $ — $ — $ ( 105 ) $ ( 105 ) $ — $ — $ —

Total Level 3 liabilities – Asset Management $ — $ — $ — $ ( 105 ) $ ( 105 ) $ — $ — $ —

Interest sensitive contract liabilities – embedded derivative $ — $ ( 3,010 ) $ — $ 1,001 $ ( 2,009 ) $ — $ — $ —

Total Level 3 liabilities – Retirement Services $ — $ ( 3,010 ) $ — $ 1,055 $ ( 1,955 ) $ 64 $ — $ 64

Total gains (losses) $ 3,019 $ ( 348 ) $ 199

Unpaid principal balance $ 96,269 $ 69,754

Unpaid principal balance of commercial mortgage loans 90 days or more past due and/or in non-accrual status $ 992 $ 195

Unpaid principal balance of commercial mortgage loans 90 days or more past due and/or in non-accrual status

Mark to fair value of commercial mortgage loans 90 days or more past due and/or in non-accrual status ( 337 ) ( 102 )

Mark to fair value of commercial mortgage loans 90 days or more past due and/or in non-accrual status

Fair value of commercial mortgage loans 90 days or more past due and/or in non-accrual status $ 655 $ 93

Fair value of commercial mortgage loans 90 days or more past due and/or in non-accrual status

Fair value of commercial mortgage loans 90 days or more past due $ 274 $ 31

Fair value of commercial mortgage loans 90 days or more past due

Fair value of commercial mortgage loans in non-accrual status 655 93

Fair value of commercial mortgage loans in non-accrual status

Unpaid principal balance of residential mortgage loans 90 days or more past due and/or in non-accrual status $ 826 $ 898

Unpaid principal balance of residential mortgage loans 90 days or more past due and/or in non-accrual status

Mark to fair value of residential mortgage loans 90 days or more past due and/or in non-accrual status ( 85 ) ( 51 )

Mark to fair value of residential mortgage loans 90 days or more past due and/or in non-accrual status

Fair value of residential mortgage loans 90 days or more past due and/or in non-accrual status $ 741 $ 847

Fair value of residential mortgage loans 90 days or more past due and/or in non-accrual status

Fair value of residential mortgage loans 90 days or more past due 1 $ 741 $ 847

Fair value of residential mortgage loans 90 days or more past due 1

Fair value of residential mortgage loans in non-accrual status 678 765

Fair value of residential mortgage loans in non-accrual status

1 As of December 31, 2025 and December 31, 2024, includes $ 63 million and $ 82 million, respectively, of residential mortgage loans that are guaranteed by U.S. government-sponsored agencies.

Mortgage loans $ ( 61 ) $ ( 58 ) $ ( 53 )

(In millions) Carrying Value Fair Value NAV Level 1 Level 2 Level 3

Investment funds $ 108 $ 108 $ 108 $ — $ — $ —

Funds withheld at interest 17,822 17,822 — — — 17,822

Short-term investments 1,049 1,049 — — 907 142

Funds withheld at interest 4,571 4,571 — — — 4,571

Total financial assets not carried at fair value $ 24,757 $ 24,767 $ 939 $ — $ 1,226 $ 22,602

Total financial assets not carried at fair value

Interest sensitive contract liabilities $ 257,022 $ 254,089 $ — $ — $ — $ 254,089

Securities to repurchase 6,043 6,043 — — 6,043 —

Funds withheld liability 5,946 5,946 — — — 5,946

Total financial liabilities not carried at fair value $ 276,859 $ 273,576 $ — $ 576 $ 12,965 $ 260,035

Total financial liabilities not carried at fair value

Investment funds $ 107 $ 107 $ 107 $ — $ — $ —

Funds withheld at interest 21,901 21,901 — — — 21,901

Short-term investments 192 192 — — — 192

Funds withheld at interest 5,665 5,665 — — — 5,665

Short-term investments 743 743 — — 743 —

Total financial assets not carried at fair value $ 29,733 $ 29,741 $ 821 $ — $ 1,061 $ 27,859

Interest sensitive contract liabilities $ 200,278 $ 192,025 $ — $ — $ — $ 192,025

Securities to repurchase 5,716 5,716 — — 5,716 —

Funds withheld liability 4,331 4,331 — — — 4,331

Total financial liabilities not carried at fair value $ 216,634 $ 207,916 $ — $ 581 $ 10,979 $ 196,356

Reinsurance ceded ( 274 ) ( 275 ) ( 276 )

Total future policy and other policy benefits $ 4,433 $ 3,054 $ 14,434

Total future policy and other policy benefits

Deferred profit liability 1 $ ( 283 ) $ ( 183 )

1 Included within future policy benefits on the consolidated statements of financial condition.

Reinsurance recoverable $ 10,282 $ 8,194

1 Represents all other reinsurers, with no single reinsurer having a carrying value in excess of 5% of the total recoverable.

(In millions) Traditional Deferred Annuities Indexed Annuities Funding Agreements Other Investment-Type and Other Indexed Annuities

Balance at December 31, 2022 $ 304 $ 755 $ 11 $ 9 $ 399 $ 2,988 $ 4,466

Amortization ( 115 ) ( 101 ) ( 4 ) ( 1 ) ( 63 ) ( 404 ) ( 688 )

Balance at December 31, 2023 890 1,517 10 11 970 2,581 5,979

Amortization ( 249 ) ( 184 ) ( 12 ) ( 1 ) ( 124 ) ( 371 ) ( 941 )

Balance at December 31, 2024 1,158 2,278 40 11 1,476 2,210 7,173

Amortization ( 365 ) ( 275 ) ( 25 ) ( 1 ) ( 192 ) ( 384 ) ( 1,242 )

Balance at December 31, 2025 $ 1,471 $ 3,135 $ 66 $ 25 $ 2,111 $ 1,826 $ 8,634

1 Includes the impacts of foreign currency translation.

(In millions, except percentages) Traditional Deferred Annuities Indexed Annuities Funding Agreements Other Investment-type Total

Balance at December 31, 2024 $ 86,661 $ 97,861 $ 54,768 $ 8,030 $ 247,320

Deposits 28,796 18,407 33,700 1,069 81,972

Policy charges ( 2 ) ( 795 ) — — ( 797 )

Surrenders and withdrawals ( 9,364 ) ( 11,701 ) — ( 238 ) ( 21,303 )

Benefit payments ( 1,386 ) ( 1,551 ) ( 7,193 ) ( 193 ) ( 10,323 )

Interest credited 4,513 3,093 3,210 230 11,046

Balance at December 31, 2025 $ 109,201 $ 105,317 $ 85,555 $ 8,821 $ 308,894

Weighted average crediting rate 4.7 % 2.7 % 4.6 % 2.8 %

Net amount at risk $ 422 $ 17,371 $ — $ 23

Cash surrender value 103,155 97,760 — 6,716

Balance at December 31, 2023 $ 64,763 $ 93,147 $ 32,350 $ 7,629 $ 197,889

Deposits 25,459 16,230 29,249 1,088 72,026

Policy charges ( 2 ) ( 709 ) — — ( 711 )

Surrenders and withdrawals ( 5,389 ) ( 12,744 ) — ( 84 ) ( 18,217 )

Benefit payments ( 1,108 ) ( 1,580 ) ( 8,304 ) ( 212 ) ( 11,204 )

Interest credited 3,256 3,524 1,707 205 8,692

Foreign exchange ( 318 ) ( 7 ) ( 414 ) ( 498 ) ( 1,237 )

Weighted average crediting rate 4.3 % 2.7 % 4.4 % 2.7 %

Net amount at risk $ 425 $ 15,441 $ — $ 51

Cash surrender value 81,243 89,511 — 6,784

Balance at December 31, 2022 $ 43,518 $ 92,660 $ 27,439 $ 4,722 $ 168,339

Deposits 30,175 12,639 6,893 4,597 54,304

Policy charges ( 2 ) ( 651 ) — — ( 653 )

Surrenders and withdrawals ( 9,929 ) ( 11,253 ) ( 110 ) ( 40 ) ( 21,332 )

Benefit payments ( 984 ) ( 1,609 ) ( 3,273 ) ( 275 ) ( 6,141 )

Interest credited 1,858 1,279 883 155 4,175

Weighted average crediting rate 4.0 % 2.4 % 3.4 % 2.7 %

Net amount at risk $ 425 $ 14,716 $ — $ 103

Cash surrender value 61,345 85,381 — 6,375

1 Other includes a $ 1,371 million reduction of reserves related to the VIAC recapture agreement. See note 18 for further information.

Traditional deferred annuities $ 109,201 $ 86,661 $ 64,763

Interest sensitive contract liabilities $ 315,889 $ 253,637 $ 204,670

1 Reconciling items primarily include embedded derivatives in indexed annuities, unaccreted host contract adjustments on indexed annuities, negative VOBA, sales inducement liabilities, and wholly ceded universal life insurance contracts.

(In millions) At Guaranteed Minimum 1 Basis Point – 100 Basis Points Above Guaranteed Minimum Greater than 100 Basis Points Above Guaranteed Minimum Total

1 Basis Point – 100 Basis Points Above Guaranteed Minimum

Greater than 100 Basis Points Above Guaranteed Minimum

< 2.0 % $ 4,993 $ 1,855 $ 87,483 $ 94,331

Total traditional deferred annuities $ 15,233 $ 2,427 $ 91,541 $ 109,201

Total indexed annuities with GMCR 5,152 1,147 3,540 9,839

1 Includes account value allocated to an indexed strategy or other amounts without a GMCR.

< 2.0 % $ 4,502 $ 1,766 $ 68,104 $ 74,372

Total traditional deferred annuities $ 14,621 $ 2,191 $ 69,849 $ 86,661

Total indexed annuities with GMCR 6,193 1,337 3,240 10,770

Note: The amounts presented in this table have been revised to conform with the current year presentation to provide certain product-level detail and account value allocated to an indexed strategy or other amounts without a GMCR.

< 2.0 % $ 3,755 $ 3,483 $ 44,941 $ 52,179

Total traditional deferred annuities $ 14,987 $ 3,955 $ 45,821 $ 64,763

Total indexed annuities with GMCR 7,844 1,635 2,718 12,197

(In millions, except percentages and years) Payout Annuities with Life Contingencies Whole Life Total

(In millions, except percentages and years)

Payout Annuities with Life Contingencies

Beginning balance, present value of expected net premiums $ — $ 880 $ 880

Beginning balance, present value of expected net premiums

Effect of changes in discount rate assumptions — ( 30 ) ( 30 )

Effect of changes in discount rate assumptions

Effect of foreign exchange on the change in discount rate assumptions — 2 2

Effect of foreign exchange on the change in discount rate assumptions

Beginning balance at original discount rate — 852 852

Beginning balance at original discount rate

Effect of changes in cash flow assumptions — 54 54

Effect of changes in cash flow assumptions

Effect of actual to expected experience — ( 13 ) ( 13 )

Ending balance at original discount rate — 1,378 1,378

Ending balance at original discount rate

Effect of changes in discount rate assumptions — 25 25

Effect of foreign exchange on the change in discount rate assumptions — ( 1 ) ( 1 )

Ending balance, present value of expected net premiums $ — $ 1,402 $ 1,402

Ending balance, present value of expected net premiums

Present value of expected future policy benefits

Beginning balance, present value of expected future policy benefits $ 42,261 $ 2,711 $ 44,972

Beginning balance, present value of expected future policy benefits

Effect of changes in discount rate assumptions 7,378 206 7,584

Effect of foreign exchange on the change in discount rate assumptions ( 5 ) ( 1 ) ( 6 )

Beginning balance at original discount rate 49,634 2,916 52,550

Effect of changes in cash flow assumptions ( 53 ) 184 131

Effect of actual to expected experience ( 88 ) ( 45 ) ( 133 )

Benefit payments ( 4,417 ) ( 138 ) ( 4,555 )

Ending balance at original discount rate 48,020 4,784 52,804

Effect of changes in discount rate assumptions ( 5,941 ) ( 1,036 ) ( 6,977 )

Effect of foreign exchange on the change in discount rate assumptions ( 21 ) 47 26

Ending balance, present value of expected future policy benefits 42,058 3,795 45,853

Ending balance, present value of expected future policy benefits

Less: Present value of expected net premiums — 1,402 1,402

Less: Present value of expected net premiums

Net future policy benefits $ 42,058 $ 2,393 $ 44,451

Weighted-average liability duration (in years) 9.2 20.7

Weighted-average liability duration (in years)

Weighted-average interest accretion rate 3.7 % 5.2 %

Weighted-average interest accretion rate

Weighted-average current discount rate 5.3 % 6.4 %

Expected future gross premiums, undiscounted $ — $ 1,963

Expected future gross premiums, undiscounted

Expected future gross premiums, discounted 1 — 1,577

Expected future gross premiums, discounted 1

Expected future benefit payments, undiscounted 70,176 12,229

Expected future benefit payments, undiscounted

1 Discounted at the original discount rate.

Beginning balance, present value of expected net premiums $ — $ 1,182 $ 1,182

Effect of changes in discount rate assumptions — ( 45 ) ( 45 )

Effect of foreign exchange on the change in discount rate assumptions — ( 2 ) ( 2 )

Beginning balance at original discount rate — 1,135 1,135

Effect of actual to expected experience — ( 4 ) ( 4 )

Ending balance at original discount rate — 852 852

Effect of changes in discount rate assumptions — 30 30

Ending balance, present value of expected net premiums $ — $ 880 $ 880

Beginning balance, present value of expected future policy benefits $ 45,001 $ 3,371 $ 48,372

Effect of changes in discount rate assumptions 6,233 ( 89 ) 6,144

Effect of foreign exchange on the change in discount rate assumptions 1 ( 6 ) ( 5 )

Beginning balance at original discount rate 51,235 3,276 54,511

Effect of changes in cash flow assumptions ( 104 ) — ( 104 )

Effect of actual to expected experience 78 ( 4 ) 74

Benefit payments ( 4,476 ) ( 85 ) ( 4,561 )

Ending balance at original discount rate 49,634 2,916 52,550

Effect of changes in discount rate assumptions ( 7,378 ) ( 206 ) ( 7,584 )

Effect of foreign exchange on the change in discount rate assumptions 5 1 6

Ending balance, present value of expected future policy benefits 42,261 2,711 44,972

Less: Present value of expected net premiums — 880 880

Net future policy benefits $ 42,261 $ 1,831 $ 44,092

Weighted-average liability duration (in years) 9.4 30.7

Weighted-average interest accretion rate 3.7 % 4.8 %

Weighted-average current discount rate 5.6 % 4.8 %

Expected future gross premiums, undiscounted $ — $ 1,107

Expected future gross premiums, discounted 1 — 929

Expected future benefit payments, undiscounted 72,793 10,618

Beginning balance, present value of expected net premiums $ — $ — $ —

Net premium collected — ( 2,027 ) ( 2,027 )

Ending balance at original discount rate — 1,135 1,135

Effect of changes in discount rate assumptions — 45 45

Ending balance, present value of expected net premiums $ — $ 1,182 $ 1,182

Beginning balance, present value of expected future policy benefits $ 36,422 $ — $ 36,422

Effect of changes in discount rate assumptions 8,425 — 8,425

Effect of foreign exchange on the change in discount rate assumptions ( 13 ) — ( 13 )

Beginning balance at original discount rate 44,834 — 44,834

Effect of changes in cash flow assumptions ( 297 ) — ( 297 )

Effect of actual to expected experience ( 67 ) — ( 67 )

Benefit payments ( 3,834 ) ( 18 ) ( 3,852 )

Ending balance at original discount rate 51,235 3,276 54,511

Effect of changes in discount rate assumptions ( 6,233 ) 89 ( 6,144 )

Effect of foreign exchange on the change in discount rate assumptions ( 1 ) 6 5

Ending balance, present value of expected future policy benefits 45,001 3,371 48,372

Less: Present value of expected net premiums — 1,182 1,182

Net future policy benefits $ 45,001 $ 2,189 $ 47,190

Weighted-average liability duration (in years) 9.5 33.5

Weighted-average interest accretion rate 3.6 % 4.8 %

Weighted-average current discount rate 5.1 % 4.1 %

Expected future gross premiums, undiscounted $ — $ 1,497

Expected future gross premiums, discounted 2 — 1,239

Expected future gross premiums, discounted 2

Expected future benefit payments, undiscounted 75,261 11,344

1 Other includes a $ 1,509 million reduction of reserves related to the VIAC recapture agreement. See note 18 for further information.

2 Discounted at the original discount rate.

Payout annuities with life contingencies $ 42,058 $ 42,261 $ 45,001

Payout annuities with life contingencies

Future policy benefits $ 50,264 $ 49,902 $ 53,287

1 Reconciling items primarily include the deferred profit liability and negative VOBA associated with the liability for future policy benefits. Additionally, it includes term life reserves, fully ceded whole life reserves, and reserves for immaterial lines of business including accident and health and disability, as well as other insurance benefit reserves for no-lapse guarantees with universal life contracts, all of which are fully ceded.

Payout annuities with life contingencies $ 1,047 $ 1,085 $ 10,504

Payout annuities with life contingencies $ 1,735 $ 1,802 $ 1,646

Total interest expense $ 1,799 $ 1,849 $ 1,658

1 Reconciling items primarily relate to immaterial lines of business including term life, fully ceded whole life, and accident and health and disability.

Deferred profit liability ( 54 ) ( 48 ) ( 246 )

Total remeasurement gains (losses) $ 24 $ 16 $ 53

(In millions, except years) Traditional Deferred Annuities Indexed Annuities Total

Balance at December 31, 2024 $ 190 $ 3,525 $ 3,715

Effect of changes in instrument-specific credit risk ( 3 ) ( 154 ) ( 157 )

Effect of changes in instrument-specific credit risk

Balance, beginning of period, before changes in instrument-specific credit risk 187 3,371 3,558

Balance, beginning of period, before changes in instrument-specific credit risk

Effect of changes in interest rates 5 2 7

Effect of changes in equity — ( 112 ) ( 112 )

Effect of actual policyholder behavior compared to expected behavior 3 109 112

Effect of actual policyholder behavior compared to expected behavior

Effect of changes in future expected policyholder behavior ( 5 ) ( 38 ) ( 43 )

Effect of changes in future expected policyholder behavior

Effect of changes in other future expected assumptions 3 ( 15 ) ( 12 )

Effect of changes in other future expected assumptions

Balance, end of period, before changes in instrument-specific credit risk 200 4,256 4,456

Balance, end of period, before changes in instrument-specific credit risk

Effect of changes in instrument-specific credit risk 5 255 260

Balance at December 31, 2025 205 4,511 4,716

Balance at December 31, 2025, net of reinsurance $ 205 $ 4,438 $ 4,643

Balance at December 31, 2025, net of reinsurance

Weighted-average attained age of contract holders (in years) 76 69

Weighted-average attained age of contract holders (in years)

Balance at December 31, 2023 $ 192 $ 3,181 $ 3,373

Effect of changes in instrument-specific credit risk 2 ( 10 ) ( 8 )

Balance, beginning of period, before changes in instrument-specific credit risk 194 3,171 3,365

Effect of changes in interest rates ( 18 ) ( 640 ) ( 658 )

Effect of changes in equity — ( 94 ) ( 94 )

Effect of actual policyholder behavior compared to expected behavior 6 73 79

Effect of changes in future expected policyholder behavior ( 3 ) 88 85

Effect of changes in other future expected assumptions — ( 19 ) ( 19 )

Balance, end of period, before changes in instrument-specific credit risk 187 3,371 3,558

Effect of changes in instrument-specific credit risk 3 154 157

Balance at December 31, 2024 190 3,525 3,715

Balance at December 31, 2024, net of reinsurance $ 190 $ 3,488 $ 3,678

Balance at December 31, 2024, net of reinsurance

Balance at December 31, 2022 $ 170 $ 2,319 $ 2,489

Effect of changes in instrument-specific credit risk 13 353 366

Balance, beginning of period, before changes in instrument-specific credit risk 183 2,672 2,855

Effect of changes in interest rates ( 1 ) ( 90 ) ( 91 )

Effect of changes in equity — ( 119 ) ( 119 )

Effect of actual policyholder behavior compared to expected behavior 5 67 72

Effect of changes in future expected policyholder behavior ( 3 ) 78 75

Effect of changes in other future expected assumptions — 6 6

Balance, end of period, before changes in instrument-specific credit risk 194 3,171 3,365

Effect of changes in instrument-specific credit risk ( 2 ) 10 8

Weighted-average attained age of contract holders (in years) 75 69

(In millions) Asset Liability Net Liability

Traditional deferred annuities $ — $ 205 $ 205

Traditional deferred annuities $ — $ 190 $ 190

Traditional deferred annuities $ — $ 192 $ 192

(In millions, except percentages) Fair Value Valuation Technique Unobservable Inputs Minimum Maximum Weighted Average Impact of an Increase in the Input on Fair Value

Impact of an Increase in the Input on Fair Value

Market risk benefits, net $ 4,716 Discounted cash flow Nonperformance risk 0.4 % 1.0 % 0.9 % 1 Decrease

Option budget 0.5 % 5.9 % 2.6 % 2 Decrease

Surrender rate 3.8 % 7.9 % 5.2 % 2 Decrease

Utilization rate 28.6 % 95.0 % 86.3 % 3 Increase

Market risk benefits, net $ 3,715 Discounted cash flow Nonperformance risk 0.4 % 1.1 % 1.0 % 1 Decrease

Option budget 0.5 % 6.0 % 2.3 % 2 Decrease

Surrender rate 3.3 % 7.2 % 4.6 % 2 Decrease

Utilization rate 28.6 % 95.0 % 84.9 % 3 Increase

Market risk benefits, net $ 3,373 Discounted cash flow Nonperformance risk 0.4 % 1.4 % 1.2 % 1 Decrease

Option budget 0.5 % 6.0 % 1.9 % 2 Decrease

Surrender rate 3.2 % 6.4 % 4.5 % 2 Decrease

Utilization rate 28.6 % 95.0 % 83.6 % 3 Increase

1 The nonperformance risk weighted average is based on the cash flows underlying the market risk benefit reserve.

2 The option budget and surrender rate weighted averages are calculated based on projected account values.

3 The utilization of GLWB withdrawals represents the estimated percentage of policyholders that are expected to use their income rider over the duration of the contract, with the weighted average based on current account values.

Profit sharing payable, January 1, 2024 $ 1,669

Profit sharing payable, December 31, 2024 1,888

Profit sharing payable, December 31, 2024

Profit sharing payable, December 31, 2025 $ 2,035

Profit sharing payable, December 31, 2025

1 Other includes profit sharing payable related to the Bridge acquisition during the third quarter of 2025.

Federal income tax 1 $ 474 $ 1,083 $ 809

Foreign income tax 2 274 ( 30 ) ( 2,239 )

Total Income Tax Provision (Benefit) $ 1,276 $ 1,062 $ ( 923 )

1 For the years ended December 31, 2025, 2024 and 2023, income tax provision (benefit) includes proportional amortization of $ 513 million, $ 56 million and $ 49 million, respectively; tax credits of $( 743 ) million, $( 367 ) million and $( 186 ) million, respectively; and transaction costs relating to low-income housing and transferable energy tax credits of $ 225 million, $ 248 million and $ 103 million, respectively.

2 The foreign income tax provision (benefit) was calculated on $ 7,656 million, $ 2,393 million and $ 2,600 million of pre-tax income (loss) generated in foreign jurisdictions for the years ended December 31, 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively.

(In millions, except percentages) Amount Percentage

U.S. federal statutory tax rate $ 1,401 21.0 %

State and local income taxes, net of federal income tax effect 1 78 1.2

State and local income taxes, net of federal income tax effect 1

State and local income taxes, net of federal income tax effect 10 0.2

State and local income taxes, net of federal income tax effect

Statutory tax rate difference between Bermuda and U.S. ( 441 ) ( 6.6 )

Statutory tax rate difference between Bermuda and U.S.

Income passed through to non-controlling interests ( 105 ) ( 1.6 )

Income passed through to non-controlling interests

Anticipatory foreign tax credit ( 99 ) ( 1.5 )

Bermuda foreign tax credit ( 664 ) ( 10.0 )

Effect of cross-border tax laws 1,062 15.9

U.S. tax on foreign insurance 953(d) income 730 11.0

U.S. tax on foreign insurance 953(d) income

Nontaxable or nondeductible items ( 58 ) ( 0.9 )

Impact of equity-based compensation ( 70 ) ( 1.1 )

Nondeductible executive compensation 58 0.9

Insurance company owned life insurance ( 32 ) ( 0.5 )

Other nontaxable or nondeductible items ( 14 ) ( 0.2 )

Changes in unrecognized tax benefits 8 0.1

Investment tax credits accounted for under the proportional amortization method ( 40 ) ( 0.6 )

Investment tax credits accounted for under the proportional amortization method

Purchase of transferable credits ( 35 ) ( 0.5 )

1 State and local income taxes in California, Illinois, Iowa, New York State and New York City made up the majority (greater than 50 percent) of the tax effect in this category.

U.S. federal statutory tax rate 21.0 % 21.0 %

Income passed through to non-controlling interests ( 3.5 ) ( 4.6 )

State and local income taxes (net of federal benefit) 0.5 1.2

State and local income taxes (net of federal benefit)

Impact of foreign taxes (net of foreign tax credit) ( 2.6 ) ( 31.0 )

Impact of foreign taxes (net of foreign tax credit)

Impact of equity-based compensation ( 1.0 ) 1.0

Impact of valuation allowance 0.6 ( 1.3 )

Effective income tax rate 14.3 % ( 16.5 ) %

Income tax provision (benefit) $ 1,276 $ 1,062 $ ( 923 )

Income tax provision (benefit) from other comprehensive income (loss) 835 21 513

Income tax provision (benefit) from other comprehensive income (loss)

Total income tax provision (benefit) $ 2,111 $ 1,083 $ ( 410 )

Depreciation and amortization $ 254 $ 303

Deferred Tax Assets, Net of Valuation Allowance 575 688

Deferred Tax Assets, Net of Valuation Allowance

Total Deferred Tax Assets, Net – Asset Management $ 253 $ 436

Total Deferred Tax Assets, Net – Asset Management

Net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards 382 206

Net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards

Investments, including derivatives 749 2,331

Investment in foreign subsidiaries 480 552

Deferred Tax Assets, Net of Valuation Allowance 6,273 7,393

Total Deferred Tax Liabilities 1,660 1,492

Total Deferred Tax Assets, Net – Retirement Services $ 4,613 $ 5,901

Total Deferred Tax Assets, Net – Retirement Services

U.S. Federal net operating losses $ 711 2026

U.S. corporate alternative minimum tax credits 4 No expiration

U.S. corporate alternative minimum tax credits

U.S. State net operating losses 284 2031

U.K. net operating losses 286 No expiration

Bermuda net operating losses 5,936 No expiration

1 Represents the year that operating losses and credits begin to expire.

U.S. federal and state net operating losses and other deferred tax assets $ 180 $ 30

U.S. federal and state net operating losses and other deferred tax assets

U.K. net operating losses and other deferred tax assets 71 45

U.K. net operating losses and other deferred tax assets

Balance at beginning of period $ 10 $ 19 $ 15

Increases based on tax positions taken in the prior years 5 8 4

Increases based on tax positions taken in the prior years

Decreases due to settlements with tax authorities ( 7 ) ( 17 ) —

Decreases due to settlements with tax authorities

(In millions, except percentages) Maturity Date Outstanding Balance Fair Value Outstanding Balance Fair Value

4.40 % 2026 Senior Notes 1,2 May 27, 2026 $ 500 $ 500 3 $ 499 $ 496 3

4.87 % 2029 Senior Notes 1,2 February 15, 2029 675 686 3 675 670 3

2.65 % 2030 Senior Notes 1,2 June 5, 2030 497 464 3 497 439 3

4.60 % 2031 Senior Notes 1,2 January 15, 2031 396 402 3 — — 3

6.38 % 2033 Senior Notes 1,2 November 15, 2033 493 550 3 492 542 3

5.15 % 2035 Senior Notes 1,2 August 12, 2035 839 853 3 — — 3

5.00 % 2048 Senior Notes 1,2 March 15, 2048 297 273 3 297 271 3

5.80 % 2054 Senior Notes 1,2 May 21, 2054 741 738 3 741 753 3

7.63 % 2053 Subordinated Notes 1,2 September 15, 2053 585 628 4 584 642 4

6.00 % 2054 Subordinated Notes 1,2 December 15, 2054 493 496 3 494 494 3

4.13 % 2028 AHL Senior Notes 1 January 12, 2028 1,034 999 3 1,050 976 3

6.15 % 2030 AHL Senior Notes 1 April 3, 2030 565 531 3 579 519 3

3.50 % 2031 AHL Senior Notes 1 January 15, 2031 517 473 3 520 452 3

6.65 % 2033 AHL Senior Notes 1 February 1, 2033 396 434 3 395 425 3

5.88 % 2034 AHL Senior Notes 1 January 15, 2034 585 623 3 584 608 3

3.95 % 2051 AHL Senior Notes 1 May 25, 2051 543 351 3 544 360 3

3.45 % 2052 AHL Senior Notes 1 May 15, 2052 504 317 3 504 322 3

6.25 % 2054 AHL Senior Notes 1 April 1, 2054 983 975 3 983 1,003 3

6.63 % 2055 AHL Senior Notes 1 May 19, 2055 979 1,019 3 — —

6.63 % 2054 AHL Subordinated Notes 1 October 15, 2054 592 600 3 592 598 3

6.88 % 2055 AHL Subordinated Notes 1 June 28, 2055 592 600 3 — —

7.25 % 2064 AHL Subordinated Notes 1 March 30, 2064 558 576 4 558 581 4

Total Debt $ 13,364 $ 13,088 $ 10,588 $ 10,151

1 Interest rate is calculated as weighted average annualized.

2 Includes note discounts, as applicable. Outstanding balance is presented net of unamortized debt issuance costs totaling $ 53 million and $ 44 million as of December 31, 2025 and December 31, 2024, respectively.

3 Fair value is based on broker quotes. These notes are valued using Level 2 inputs based on the number and quality of broker quotes obtained, the standard deviations of the observed broker quotes and the percentage deviation from external pricing services.

4 Fair value is based on quoted market prices. These notes are classified as a Level 1 liability within the fair value hierarchy.

Instrument/Facility Maturity Date Administrative Agent Key terms

Asset Management – AGM credit facility November 21, 2029 Citibank The borrowing capacity under the AGM credit facility is $ 1.25 billion, subject to being increased up to $ 1.5 billion in total.

The borrowing capacity under the AGM credit facility is $ 1.25 billion, subject to being increased up to $ 1.5 billion in total.

Retirement Services – AHL credit facility June 30, 2028 Citibank The borrowing capacity under the AHL credit facility is $ 1.25 billion, subject to being increased up to $ 1.75 billion in total.

Retirement Services – AHL credit facility

The borrowing capacity under the AHL credit facility is $ 1.25 billion, subject to being increased up to $ 1.75 billion in total.

Retirement Services – AHL liquidity facility June 26, 2026 Wells Fargo Bank The borrowing capacity under the AHL liquidity facility is $ 2.6 billion, subject to being increased up to $ 3.1 billion in total.

Retirement Services – AHL liquidity facility

The borrowing capacity under the AHL liquidity facility is $ 2.6 billion, subject to being increased up to $ 3.1 billion in total.

Total Interest Expense $ 618 $ 474 $ 268

Note: Debt issuance costs incurred are amortized into interest expense over the term of the debt arrangement, as applicable.

1 Interest expense for Retirement Services is included in policy and other operating expenses on the consolidated statements of operations.

Debt obligations $ 500 $ — $ 1,175 $ 3,900 $ 5,575

Debt obligations — 1,000 500 6,275 7,775

Total Obligations as of December 31, 2025 $ 500 $ 1,000 $ 1,675 $ 10,175 $ 13,350

Total Obligations as of December 31, 2025

Marketability discount for transfer restrictions 1 5.6 % 3.1 % 4.1 %

Marketability discount for transfer restrictions 1

Discount for the lack of distributions until vested 2 0.1 % — % 0.2 %

Discount for the lack of distributions until vested 2

Marketability discount for transfer restrictions 1 16.6 % 11.0 % 9.7 %

1 Based on the Finnerty Model calculation.

2 Based on the present value of a growing annuity calculation.

Unvested Weighted Average Grant Date Fair Value Vested Total Number of RSUs Outstanding

Balance at January 1, 2025 14,635,028 $ 70.03 21,337,132 35,972,160

Granted 1 4,836,147 145.46 484,317 5,320,464

Forfeited ( 336,104 ) 103.87 ( 14,566 ) ( 350,670 )

Balance at December 31, 2025 13,047,189 $ 81.72 19,437,942 32,485,131

Unvested Weighted Average Grant Date Fair Value Vested Total Shares of Restricted Stock Outstanding

Total Shares of Restricted Stock Outstanding

Balance at January 1, 2025 707,801 $ 85.48 474,922 1,182,723

Forfeited ( 14,804 ) 118.26 — ( 14,804 )

Balance at December 31, 2025 1,346,691 $ 111.81 474,922 1,821,613

1 Includes 0.6 million RSAs with a fair value of $ 83 million converted in connection with the Bridge acquisition.

2 Refers to issued shares that became freely transferable in 2025.

Shares of common stock issued in settlement of vested RSUs and options exercised 1 8,952,317 7,852,512 8,643,520

Shares of common stock issued in settlement of vested RSUs and options exercised 1

Reduction of shares of common stock issued 2 ( 3,588,339 ) ( 2,998,607 ) ( 3,185,680 )

Reduction of shares of common stock issued 2

Shares of common stock purchased related to share issuances and forfeitures 3 — ( 150,676 ) ( 162,123 )

Shares of common stock purchased related to share issuances and forfeitures 3

Issuance of shares of common stock for equity-based awards 5,363,978 4,703,229 5,295,717

Issuance of shares of common stock for equity-based awards

1 The gross value of shares issued was $ 1,419 million, $ 868 million and $ 626 million for the years ended December 31, 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively, based on the closing price of the shares of common stock at the time of issuance.

2 Cash paid for tax liabilities associated with net share settlement was $ 583 million, $ 338 million and $ 259 million for the years ended December 31, 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively.

3 Certain Apollo employees receive a portion of the profit sharing proceeds of certain funds in the form of (a) restricted shares of common stock that they are required to purchase with such proceeds or (b) RSUs, in each case which equity-based awards generally vest over three years . These equity-based awards are granted under the Company’s Equity Plan. To prevent dilution on account of these awards, Apollo may, in its discretion, repurchase shares of common stock on the open market and retire them. During the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, Apollo issued 401,111 and 551,333 of such restricted shares and 150,676 and 162,123 of such RSUs under the Equity Plan, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2023, Apollo repurchased 713,456 shares of common stock in open-market transactions not pursuant to a publicly-announced repurchase plan or program. In addition, there were 1,085 and 10,880 restricted shares forfeited during the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.

Dividend Declaration Date Dividend per Share of Common Stock Payment Date Dividend to Common Stockholders Distribution Equivalents on Participating Securities

Distribution Equivalents on Participating Securities

February 9, 2023 $ 0.40 February 28, 2023 $ 229 $ 12

August 3, 2023 0.43 August 31, 2023 244 12

November 1, 2023 0.43 November 30, 2023 244 15

Year ended December 31, 2023 $ 1.69 $ 961 $ 51

February 8, 2024 $ 0.43 February 29, 2024 $ 245 $ 14

August 1, 2024 0.46 August 30, 2024 262 15

November 5, 2024 0.46 November 29, 2024 262 15

Year ended December 31, 2024 $ 1.81 $ 1,032 $ 60

February 4, 2025 $ 0.46 February 28, 2025 $ 264 $ 14

August 5, 2025 0.51 August 29, 2025 291 15

November 4, 2025 0.51 November 28, 2025 296 15

Year ended December 31, 2025 $ 1.99 $ 1,143 $ 58

(In millions) Unrealized investment gains (losses) on AFS securities without a credit allowance Unrealized investment gains (losses) on AFS securities with a credit allowance Unrealized gains (losses) on hedging instruments Remeasurement gains (losses) on future policy benefits related to discount rate Remeasurement gains (losses) on market risk benefits related to credit risk Foreign currency translation and other adjustments Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

Unrealized investment gains (losses) on AFS securities without a credit allowance

Unrealized investment gains (losses) on AFS securities with a credit allowance

Balance at December 31, 2024 $ ( 9,174 ) $ ( 284 ) $ ( 119 ) $ 4,235 $ ( 103 ) $ ( 49 ) $ ( 5,494 )

Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications 3,829 40 284 ( 612 ) ( 103 ) 181 3,619

Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications

Less: Reclassification adjustments for gains (losses) realized 1 ( 569 ) ( 18 ) 32 — — — ( 555 )

Less: Reclassification adjustments for gains (losses) realized 1

Less: Income tax provision (benefit) 899 12 52 ( 126 ) ( 22 ) 20 835

Less: Other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, net of tax 697 14 98 ( 388 ) ( 15 ) 84 490

Less: Other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, net of tax

Balance at December 31, 2025 $ ( 6,372 ) $ ( 252 ) $ ( 17 ) $ 4,137 $ ( 169 ) $ 28 $ ( 2,645 )

1 Recognized in investment related gains (losses) on the consolidated statements of operations.

Balance at December 31, 2023 $ ( 8,675 ) $ ( 289 ) $ ( 81 ) $ 3,458 $ 3 $ 9 $ ( 5,575 )

Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications ( 1,354 ) ( 5 ) ( 8 ) 1,425 ( 149 ) ( 101 ) ( 192 )

Less: Reclassification adjustments for gains (losses) realized 1 ( 223 ) ( 15 ) 43 — — — ( 195 )

Less: Income tax provision (benefit) ( 219 ) 3 ( 8 ) 287 ( 31 ) ( 11 ) 21

Less: Other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, net of tax ( 413 ) 2 ( 5 ) 361 ( 12 ) ( 32 ) ( 99 )

Balance at December 31, 2022 $ ( 12,568 ) $ ( 334 ) $ 48 $ 5,256 $ 285 $ ( 22 ) $ ( 7,335 )

Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications 5,067 51 ( 117 ) ( 2,236 ) ( 374 ) 65 2,456

Less: Reclassification adjustments for gains (losses) realized 1 ( 163 ) ( 3 ) 82 — — — ( 84 )

Less: Income tax provision (benefit) 588 6 ( 51 ) 38 ( 78 ) 10 513

Less: Other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, net of subsidiary issuance of equity interest and tax 749 3 ( 19 ) ( 476 ) ( 14 ) 24 267

Less: Other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests, net of subsidiary issuance of equity interest and tax

(In millions, except share and per share amounts) 2025 2024 2023

(In millions, except share and per share amounts)

Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders $ 3,395 $ 4,480 $ 5,001

Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders

Dividends declared on common stock 1 ( 1,143 ) ( 1,032 ) ( 961 )

Dividends on participating securities 2 ( 58 ) ( 60 ) ( 51 )

Earnings allocable to participating securities ( 50 ) ( 91 ) ( 115 )

Earnings allocable to participating securities

Undistributed income (loss) attributable to common stockholders: Basic 2,144 3,297 3,874

Undistributed income (loss) attributable to common stockholders: Basic

Dilution effect on distributable income attributable to Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock — 97 46

Dilution effect on distributable income attributable to Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock

Dilution effect on distributable income attributable to contingent shares — — ( 5 )

Dilution effect on distributable income attributable to contingent shares

Undistributed income (loss) attributable to common stockholders: Diluted $ 2,144 $ 3,394 $ 3,915

Undistributed income (loss) attributable to common stockholders: Diluted

Weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding: Basic 589,450,878 586,069,166 581,380,268

Weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding: Basic

Dilution effect of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock — 14,530,212 6,440,346

Dilution effect of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock

Dilution effect of options 887,361 1,090,151 994,172

Dilution effect of warrants 3,318,984 2,346,463 —

Dilution effect of contingent shares — — 31,661

Weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding: Diluted 593,657,223 604,035,992 588,846,447

Weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding: Diluted

Net income (loss) per share of common stock: Basic

Undistributed income (loss) 3.59 5.57 6.63

Net income (loss) per share of common stock: Basic $ 5.58 $ 7.39 $ 8.32

Net income (loss) per share of common stock: Diluted

Undistributed income (loss) 3.55 5.51 6.59

Net income (loss) per share of common stock: Diluted $ 5.54 $ 7.33 $ 8.28

1 See note 16 for information regarding quarterly dividends.

2 Participating securities consist of vested and unvested RSUs that have rights to dividends and unvested restricted shares.

Weighted average unvested RSUs 12,562,494 14,273,743 15,316,350

Weighted average unexercised warrants 477,848 63,388 4,761,918

Weighted average Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock 14,551,626 — —

Weighted average Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock

Weighted average unvested restricted shares 1,360,830 1,327,484 1,688,421

Weighted average unvested restricted shares

Due from employees and former employees 110 106

Total Due from Related Parties 2 $ 663 $ 584

Total Due to Related Parties $ 1,062 $ 710

1 Includes $ 15 million and $ 27 million as of December 31, 2025 and December 31, 2024, respectively, related to a receivable from a fund in connection with the Company’s sale of a platform investment to such fund. The amount is payable to the Company over five years and is held at fair value.

2 Includes due from related parties of certain consolidated VIEs.

Non-redeemable preferred equity and corporate debt securities 316 277

Non-redeemable preferred equity and corporate debt securities

Total investment in Athora $ 1,487 $ 1,310

Total investments in VA Capital and Venerable $ 675 $ 509

Total investments in VA Capital and Venerable

Contributions from ADIP $ 466 $ 954 $ 996

Distributions to ADIP ( 444 ) ( 920 ) ( 539 )

Restricted cash and cash equivalents 1,349 953

Total restricted assets $ 110,728 $ 79,501

Increase (decrease) to capital and surplus due to permitted practices $ 1,982 $ 808 $ 2,655 $ 54

Increase (decrease) to capital and surplus due to permitted practices

Increase (decrease) to statutory net income due to permitted practices ( 663 ) ( 644 ) ( 1,752 ) 62

Increase (decrease) to statutory net income due to permitted practices

AANY New York Department of Financial Services

New York Department of Financial Services

Athene Re USA IV State of Vermont Department of Financial Regulation

State of Vermont Department of Financial Regulation

Statutory capital & surplus Statutory net income (loss)

ALRe $ 13,702 $ 17,623 $ 612 $ 3,140 $ 832

Management fees 1 $ 3,391 $ 2,776 $ 2,480

Capital solutions fees and other, net 808 668 538

Fee-related compensation ( 1,178 ) ( 925 ) ( 835 )

Other operating expenses ( 759 ) ( 664 ) ( 561 )

Fixed income and other net investment income 13,021 10,805 8,739

Alternative net investment income 1,299 939 864

Strategic capital management fees 131 105 72

Cost of funds ( 10,083 ) ( 7,702 ) ( 5,650 )

Other operating expenses ( 447 ) ( 458 ) ( 481 )

Interest and other financing costs ( 560 ) ( 465 ) ( 436 )

Spread Related Earnings 3,361 3,224 3,108

Realized performance fees 2 1,198 921 742

Principal investing compensation ( 892 ) ( 664 ) ( 601 )

Other operating expenses ( 63 ) ( 60 ) ( 56 )

Asset Management 1 $ 4,465 $ 3,652 $ 3,164

Total Segment Revenue $ 20,209 $ 16,496 $ 13,579

1 Includes intersegment management fees from Retirement Services of $ 1,441 million, $ 1,223 million and $ 955 million for the years ended December 31, 2025, 2024 and 2023 respectively.

2 Includes intersegment realized performance fees from Retirement Services of $ 0 million, $ 30 million and $ 20 million for the years ended December 31, 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively.

Equity-based profit sharing expense 1,5 ( 211 ) ( 321 ) ( 239 )

Equity-based compensation ( 439 ) ( 308 ) ( 662 )

Net (income) loss attributable to non-controlling interests in consolidated entities 2,157 1,840 1,556

Unrealized performance fees 5 ( 64 ) 264 127

Unrealized profit sharing expense 5 34 ( 145 ) ( 179 )

HoldCo interest and other financing costs 2 ( 143 ) ( 80 ) ( 88 )

Unrealized principal investment (income) loss 5 25 ( 9 ) 88

Unrealized principal investment (income) loss 5

Unrealized net (gains) losses from investment activities 5 ( 362 ) 46 37

Unrealized net (gains) losses from investment activities 5

Transaction-related costs, restructuring and other non-operating expenses 3 ( 487 ) ( 184 ) ( 147 )

Investment gains (losses), net of offsets 19 217 170

Investment gains (losses), net of offsets

Non-operating change in insurance liabilities and related derivatives 4 91 846 182

Integration, restructuring and other non-operating items ( 121 ) ( 239 ) ( 130 )

Equity-based compensation ( 49 ) ( 50 ) ( 88 )

Income (loss) before income tax (provision) benefit $ 6,677 $ 7,435 $ 5,586

3 Transaction-related costs, restructuring and other non-operating expenses includes: (a) contingent consideration, certain equity-based charges, amortization of intangible assets and certain other expenses associated with acquisitions; (b) gains (losses) from changes in the tax receivable agreement liability; (c) merger-related transaction and integration costs associated with Company’s merger with Athene and (d) other non-operating expenses, including the issuance of shares of AGM common stock for charitable contributions. In the year ended December 31, 2025, other non-operating expenses includes $ 200 million in charitable contributions related to the issuance of shares to the Apollo DAF in February 2025.

5 Represents adjustments that primarily impact the Principal Investing segment.

Segment Revenues $ 20,209 $ 16,496 $ 13,579

Adjustments related to consolidated funds and VIEs 1 780 525 362

Adjustments related to consolidated funds and VIEs 1

Principal investment income (loss) 2 7 7 102

Equity awards granted by unconsolidated related parties, reimbursable expenses and other 1 757 479 331

Equity awards granted by unconsolidated related parties, reimbursable expenses and other 1

Premiums, product charges, investment related gains (losses) and other retirement services revenue 3 5,334 4,398 15,616

Premiums, product charges, investment related gains (losses) and other retirement services revenue 3

Change in fair value of reinsurance assets 283 129 ( 86 )

Change in fair value of reinsurance assets

Forward points adjustment on FX derivative hedges ( 113 ) ( 133 ) ( 187 )

Forward points adjustment on FX derivative hedges

Held-for-trading amortization 191 108 191

ACRA non-controlling interests on net investment earnings 4,741 3,864 2,377

ACRA non-controlling interests on net investment earnings

Other retirement services adjustments ( 238 ) ( 255 ) ( 31 )

Total Revenues $ 32,049 $ 26,114 $ 32,644

1 Represents advisory fees, management fees and performance fees earned from consolidated VIEs which are eliminated in consolidation. Includes non-cash revenues related to equity awards granted by unconsolidated related parties to employees of the Company and certain compensation and administrative related expense reimbursements.

2 Represents adjustments that primarily impact the Principal Investing segment.

3 Refer to the consolidated statements of operations for a breakout of individual items.

Total reportable segment assets $ 446,675 $ 368,442

1 Represents the addition of assets of consolidated funds and VIEs and consolidation elimination adjustments.

(In millions) Apollo Global Management, Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries 1 Consolidated Funds and VIEs Eliminations Consolidated

Apollo Global Management, Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries 1

Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,350 $ — $ — $ 3,350

Restricted cash and cash equivalents 19 — — 19

Cash and cash equivalents 14,994 — — 14,994

Restricted cash and cash equivalents 1,332 — — 1,332

Investments in related parties 52,251 — (17,272) 34,979

Reinsurance recoverable 10,282 — — 10,282

Deferred acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements and value of business acquired 8,634 — — 8,634

Total Assets $ 446,675 $ 33,324 $ (19,050) $ 460,949

Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities $ 3,861 $ — $ — $ 3,861

Due to related parties 1,165 — (103) 1,062

Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities 141 1,859 (51) 1,949

Interest sensitive contract liabilities 315,889 — — 315,889

Future policy benefits 50,264 — — 50,264

Payables for collateral on derivatives and securities to repurchase 11,085 — — 11,085

Total Liabilities 415,060 3,717 (343) 418,434

Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock 1,398 — — 1,398

Additional paid in capital 16,914 40 — 16,954

Retained earnings (accumulated deficit) 7,731 18,784 (18,881) 7,634

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (2,636) 31 (40) (2,645)

Total AGM Stockholders’ Equity 23,407 18,855 (18,921) 23,341

Non-controlling interests 8,208 10,752 214 19,174

Total Equity 31,615 29,607 (18,707) 42,515

Total Liabilities and Equity $ 446,675 $ 33,324 $ (19,050) $ 460,949

1 Certain investment managers and general partners of the funds managed by the Company are VIEs. Such investment managers and general partners have other equity investors at risk that do not have the ability to make significant decisions related to the entity’s operations. The assets and liabilities of such VIEs are presented within Apollo Global Management, Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries.

(In millions) Apollo Global Management, Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Consolidated Funds and VIEs Eliminations Consolidated

Apollo Global Management, Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries

Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,692 $ — $ — $ 2,692

Restricted cash and cash equivalents 3 — — 3

Cash and cash equivalents 12,733 — — 12,733

Restricted cash and cash equivalents 943 — — 943

Investments in related parties 44,332 — (15,448) 28,884

Deferred acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements and value of business acquired 7,173 — — 7,173

Total Assets $ 368,409 $ 26,166 $ (16,680) $ 377,895

Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities $ 3,616 $ — $ — $ 3,616

Interest sensitive contract liabilities 253,637 — — 253,637

Future policy benefits 49,902 — — 49,902

Payables for collateral on derivatives and securities to repurchase 11,652 — — 11,652

Total Liabilities 344,076 3,150 (311) 346,915

Redeemable non-controlling interests — 16 — 16

Additional paid in capital 15,287 40 — 15,327

Retained earnings (accumulated deficit) 6,021 16,673 (16,672) 6,022

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (5,485) (60) 51 (5,494)

Total AGM Stockholders’ Equity 17,221 16,653 (16,621) 17,253

Non-controlling interests 7,112 6,347 252 13,711

Total Equity 24,333 23,000 (16,369) 30,964

Total Liabilities, Redeemable non-controlling interests and Equity $ 368,409 $ 26,166 $ (16,680) $ 377,895

1. Financial Statements—Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 140

Financial Statements—Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Schedule I—Condensed Financial Information of Registrant (Parent Company Only) 271

Schedule I—Condensed Financial Information of Registrant (Parent Company Only)

Schedule I—Statements of Financial Condition as of December 31, 202 5 and 20 24 271

Schedule I—Statements of Financial Condition as of December 31, 202 5 and 20 24

Schedule I—Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 202 5 , 202 4 and 202 3 272

Schedule I—Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 202 5 , 202 4 and 202 3

Schedule I—Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 202 5 , 202 4 and 202 3 273

Schedule I—Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 202 5 , 202 4 and 202 3

Schedule I—Notes to Condensed Financial Information for the years ended December 31, 202 5 , 202 4 and 202 3 274

Schedule I—Notes to Condensed Financial Information for the years ended December 31, 202 5 , 202 4 and 202 3

Schedule II—Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the years ended December 31, 202 5 , 202 4 and 202 3 275

Schedule II—Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the years ended December 31, 202 5 , 202 4 and 202 3

Any remaining schedules are omitted because they are inapplicable.

Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities $ 124 $ 234

Total Liabilities and Equity $ 28,371 $ 20,285

See accompanying notes to condensed financial information of registrant (parent company only)

Investment income (loss) $ 4,119 $ 4,932 $ 4,646

General, administrative and other 79 32 26

Income (loss) before income tax (provision) benefit 3,685 4,785 4,634

Income tax (provision) benefit ( 193 ) ( 208 ) 413

Net cash used in operating activities $ ( 228 ) $ ( 23 ) $ ( 63 )

Contributions to subsidiaries — ( 71 ) ( 1,250 )

Distributions from subsidiaries 750 453 1,166

Net cash provided by investing activities 898 591 63

Net cash provided by investing activities

Payment of debt issuance cost ( 16 ) ( 17 ) ( 25 )

Issuance of Mandatory Convertible Preferred stock, net of issuance costs — — 1,398

Issuance of Mandatory Convertible Preferred stock, net of issuance costs

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities ( 126 ) ( 898 ) 987

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents 544 ( 330 ) 987

Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Period 657 987 —

Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Period

Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Period $ 1,201 $ 657 $ 987

Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Period

Description Balance at beginning of year Charged to costs and expenses Assumed through acquisitions Deductions Balance at end of year

Reserves deducted from assets to which they apply

Valuation allowance on deferred tax assets $ 75 $ 170 $ 6 $ — $ 251

Valuation allowance on deferred tax assets

Valuation allowance on deferred tax assets 33 42 — — 75

Valuation allowance on deferred tax assets 105 156 — ( 228 ) 33

2.1 Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of March 8, 2021, by and among Apollo Global Management, Inc., Athene Holding Ltd., Tango Holdings, Inc., Blue Merger Sub, Ltd., and Green Merger Sub, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 8-K filed on March 8, 2021 (File No. 001-35107)).

Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of March 8, 2021, by and among Apollo Global Management, Inc., Athene Holding Ltd., Tango Holdings, Inc., Blue Merger Sub, Ltd., and Green Merger Sub, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 8-K filed on March 8, 2021 (File No. 001-35107)).

3.1 Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Tango Holdings, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K12B filed on January 3, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Tango Holdings, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K12B filed on January 3, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

3.2 Amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Apollo Global Management, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K12B filed on January 3, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

Amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Apollo Global Management, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K12B filed on January 3, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

3.3 Certificate of Designations of 6.75% Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock of Apollo Global Management, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on August 11, 2023 (File No. 001-41197)).

Certificate of Designations of 6.75% Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock of Apollo Global Management, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on August 11, 2023 (File No. 001-41197)).

3.4 Amended and Restated Bylaws of Apollo Global Management, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K12B filed on January 3, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

Amended and Restated Bylaws of Apollo Global Management, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K12B filed on January 3, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

4.1 Form of 6.75% Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock Certificate (included in Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on August 11, 2023 (File No. 001-41197), which is incorporated by reference).

Form of 6.75% Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock Certificate (included in Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on August 11, 2023 (File No. 001-41197), which is incorporated by reference).

4.2 Indenture, dated as of August 23, 2023, among Apollo Global Management, Inc., the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank Trust Company, National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on August 23, 2023 (File No. 001-41197)).

Indenture, dated as of August 23, 2023, among Apollo Global Management, Inc., the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank Trust Company, National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on August 23, 2023 (File No. 001-41197)).

4.3 Form of 7.625% Fixed-Rate Resettable Junior Subordinated Notes due 2053 (included in Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on August 23, 2023 (File No. 001-41197), which is incorporated by reference).

Form of 7.625% Fixed-Rate Resettable Junior Subordinated Notes due 2053 (included in Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on August 23, 2023 (File No. 001-41197), which is incorporated by reference).

4.4 Indenture, dated as of November 13, 2023, among Apollo Global Management, Inc., the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank Trust Company, National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on November 13, 2023 (File No. 001-41197)).

Indenture, dated as of November 13, 2023, among Apollo Global Management, Inc., the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank Trust Company, National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on November 13, 2023 (File No. 001-41197)).

4.5 Form of 6.375% Senior Notes due 2033 (included in Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on November 13, 2023 (File No. 001-41197), which is incorporated by reference).

Form of 6.375% Senior Notes due 2033 (included in Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on November 13, 2023 (File No. 001-41197), which is incorporated by reference).

4.6 Indenture, dated as of May 21, 2024, among Apollo Global Management, Inc., the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank Trust Company, National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on May 21, 2024 (File No. 001-41197)).

Indenture, dated as of May 21, 2024, among Apollo Global Management, Inc., the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank Trust Company, National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on May 21, 2024 (File No. 001-41197)).

4.7 Form of 5.800% Senior Notes due 2054 (included in Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on May 21, 2024 (File No. 001-41197), which is incorporated by reference).

Form of 5.800% Senior Notes due 2054 (included in Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on May 21, 2024 (File No. 001-41197), which is incorporated by reference).

4.8 Indenture, dated as of October 10, 2024, among Apollo Global Management, Inc., the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank Trust Company, National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on October 10, 2024 (File No. 001-41197)).

Indenture, dated as of October 10, 2024, among Apollo Global Management, Inc., the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank Trust Company, National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on October 10, 2024 (File No. 001-41197)).

4.9 Form of 6.000% Fixed-Rate Resettable Junior Subordinated Notes due 2054 (included in Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on October 10, 2024 (File No. 001-41197), which is incorporated by reference).

Form of 6.000% Fixed-Rate Resettable Junior Subordinated Notes due 2054 (included in Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on October 10, 2024 (File No. 001-41197), which is incorporated by reference).

4.10 Indenture, dated as of August 12, 2025, among Apollo Global Management, Inc., the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank Trust Company, National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on August 12, 2025 (File No. 001-41197)).

Indenture, dated as of August 12, 2025, among Apollo Global Management, Inc., the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank Trust Company, National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on August 12, 2025 (File No. 001-41197)).

4.11 First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 7, 2025, among Apollo Global Management, Inc., the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank Trust Company, National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on November 7, 2025 (File No. 001-41197)).

First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 7, 2025, among Apollo Global Management, Inc., the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank Trust Company, National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on November 7, 2025 (File No. 001-41197)).

4.12 Form of 5.150% Senior Notes due 2035 (included in Exhibit 4. 3 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on November 7 , 2025 (File No. 001-41197), which is incorporated by reference).

Form of 5.150% Senior Notes due 2035 (included in Exhibit 4. 3 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on November 7 , 2025 (File No. 001-41197), which is incorporated by reference).

4.13 Indenture, dated as of November 7, 2025, among Apollo Global Management, Inc., the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank Trust Company, National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on November 7, 2025 (File No. 001-41197)).

Indenture, dated as of November 7, 2025, among Apollo Global Management, Inc., the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank Trust Company, National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on November 7, 2025 (File No. 001-41197)).

4.14 Form of 4.600% Senior Notes due 2031 (included in Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on November 7, 2025 (File No. 001-41197), which is incorporated by reference).

Form of 4.600% Senior Notes due 2031 (included in Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-K filed on November 7, 2025 (File No. 001-41197), which is incorporated by reference).

4.15 Certain instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt securities of the Registrant and its subsidiaries are omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K. The Registrant hereby undertakes to furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission, upon request, copies of any such instruments.

Certain instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt securities of the Registrant and its subsidiaries are omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K. The Registrant hereby undertakes to furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission, upon request, copies of any such instruments.

*4.16 Description of the Registrant’s Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

Description of the Registrant’s Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

+10.1 Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and restated as of January 26, 2022 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and restated as of January 26, 2022 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

+10.2 Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan for Estate Planning Vehicles, as amended and restated as of January 26, 2022 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan for Estate Planning Vehicles, as amended and restated as of January 26, 2022 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

+10.3 Athene Holding Ltd. 2014 Share Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16.3 to Athene Holding Ltd.’s Form S-1 filed on October 25, 2016 (File No. 333-211243)).

Athene Holding Ltd. 2014 Share Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16.3 to Athene Holding Ltd.’s Form S-1 filed on October 25, 2016 (File No. 333-211243)).

+10.4 Amendment No. 1 to 2014 Share Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16.4 to Athene Holding Ltd.’s Form S-1 filed on October 25, 2016 (File No. 333-211243)).

Amendment No. 1 to 2014 Share Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16.4 to Athene Holding Ltd.’s Form S-1 filed on October 25, 2016 (File No. 333-211243)).

+10.5 Athene Holding Ltd. 2016 Share Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16.5 to Athene Holding Ltd.’s Form S-1 filed on October 25, 2016 (File No. 333-211243)).

Athene Holding Ltd. 2016 Share Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16.5 to Athene Holding Ltd.’s Form S-1 filed on October 25, 2016 (File No. 333-211243)).

+10.6 Athene Holding Ltd. 2019 Share Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Athene Holding Ltd.’s Form 8-K filed on June 10, 2019 dated June 4, 2019).

Athene Holding Ltd. 2019 Share Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Athene Holding Ltd.’s Form 8-K filed on June 10, 2019 dated June 4, 2019).

+10.7 Amendment to the Athene Holding Ltd. 2014 Share Incentive Plan, Athene Holding Ltd. 2016 Share Incentive Plan and Athene Holding Ltd. 2019 Share Incentive Plan, effective as of January 1, 2022 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

Amendment to the Athene Holding Ltd. 2014 Share Incentive Plan, Athene Holding Ltd. 2016 Share Incentive Plan and Athene Holding Ltd. 2019 Share Incentive Plan, effective as of January 1, 2022 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

+10.8 Form of Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

Form of Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

+10.9 Form of Director Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

Form of Director Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

+10.10 Form of Incentive Program Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form S-8 filed on September 5, 2019 (File No. 333-232797)).

Form of Incentive Program Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form S-8 filed on September 5, 2019 (File No. 333-232797)).

+10.11 Form of Performance Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form S-8 filed on September 5, 2019 (File No. 333-232797)).

Form of Performance Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form S-8 filed on September 5, 2019 (File No. 333-232797)).

+10.12 Form of Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form S-8 filed on September 5, 2019 (File No. 333-232797)).

Form of Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form S-8 filed on September 5, 2019 (File No. 333-232797)).

+10.13 Form of Restricted Share Award Grant Notice and Restricted Share Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan or Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan for Estate Planning Vehicles (inc orp orated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to the Registrant ’ s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2024 (File No . 001-41197)) .

Form of Restricted Share Award Grant Notice and Restricted Share Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan or Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan for Estate Planning Vehicles (inc orp orated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to the Registrant ’ s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2024 (File No . 001-41197)) .

+10.14 Form of Restricted Share Award Grant Notice and Restricted Share Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan or Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan for Estate Planning Vehicles (inc orporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to the Reg istrant ’ s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2024 (File No . 001-41197)) .

Form of Restricted Share Award Grant Notice and Restricted Share Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan or Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan for Estate Planning Vehicles (inc orporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to the Reg istrant ’ s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2024 (File No . 001-41197)) .

+10.15 Form of Successor Performance Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2019 (File No. 001-35107)).

Form of Successor Performance Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2019 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.16 Form of Credit Bonus Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2018 (File No. 001-35107)).

Form of Credit Bonus Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2018 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.17 Form of Restricted Share Award Grant Notice and Restricted Share Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan for Estate Planning Vehicles (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2019 (File No. 001-35107)).

Form of Restricted Share Award Grant Notice and Restricted Share Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan for Estate Planning Vehicles (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2019 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.18 Form of Share Award Grant Notice and Share Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan for Estate Planning Vehicles (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2019 (File No. 001-35107)).

Form of Share Award Grant Notice and Share Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan for Estate Planning Vehicles (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2019 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.19 Form of Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan for Estate Planning Vehicles (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Athene Holding Ltd.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2022 (File No. 001-37963)).

Form of Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan for Estate Planning Vehicles (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Athene Holding Ltd.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2022 (File No. 001-37963)).

+10.20 Form of Notice of Restricted Share Unit Award and Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the Registrant ’ s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2024 (File No. 001-41197)) .

Form of Notice of Restricted Share Unit Award and Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the Registrant ’ s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2024 (File No. 001-41197)) .

+10.21 Form of Notice of Performance Restricted Share Unit Award and Performance Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to the Registrant ’ s Form 10 - K for the period ended December 31, 2024 (File No.001-41197)) .

Form of Notice of Performance Restricted Share Unit Award and Performance Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to the Registrant ’ s Form 10 - K for the period ended December 31, 2024 (File No.001-41197)) .

+10.22 Form of Notice of Cash Incentive Income Performance-based Restricted Share Unit Award and Cash Incentive Income Performance-based Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (incorporat ed by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to the Registrant ’ s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2024 (File No. 001-41197)) .

Form of Notice of Cash Incentive Income Performance-based Restricted Share Unit Award and Cash Incentive Income Performance-based Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (incorporat ed by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to the Registrant ’ s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2024 (File No. 001-41197)) .

+10.23 Form of Notice of Director Restricted Share Unit Award and Director Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (Deferred Restricted Share Units) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2024 (File No. 001-41197).

Form of Notice of Director Restricted Share Unit Award and Director Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (Deferred Restricted Share Units) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2024 (File No. 001-41197).

+10.24 Form of Notice of Director Restricted Share Unit Award and Director Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (Non-Deferred Restricted Share Units) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2024 (File No. 001-41197).

Form of Notice of Director Restricted Share Unit Award and Director Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement under the Apollo Global Management, Inc. 2019 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (Non-Deferred Restricted Share Units) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2024 (File No. 001-41197).

+10.25 Employment Agreement with Martin Kelly, dated July 2, 2012 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.42 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2012 (File No. 001-35107)).

Employment Agreement with Martin Kelly, dated July 2, 2012 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.42 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2012 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.26 Letter Agreement with Marc Rowan, dated January 3 0 , 202 5 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10. 3 to the Registrant ’ s Form 10- Q for the period ended March 31, 202 5 (File No. 001- 41197 )).

Letter Agreement with Marc Rowan, dated January 3 0 , 202 5 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10. 3 to the Registrant ’ s Form 10- Q for the period ended March 31, 202 5 (File No. 001- 41197 )).

+10.27 Letter Agreement with Scott Kleinman, dated December 1, 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.40 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2021 (File No. 001-35107)).

Letter Agreement with Scott Kleinman, dated December 1, 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.40 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2021 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.28 Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement with Scott Kleinman, dated as of December 1, 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.41 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2021 (File No. 001-35107)).

Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement with Scott Kleinman, dated as of December 1, 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.41 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2021 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.29 Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement with Scott Kleinman, dated as of December 1, 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.42 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2021 (File No. 001-35107)).

Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement with Scott Kleinman, dated as of December 1, 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.42 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2021 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.30 Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement with Scott Kleinman, dated as of December 1, 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.43 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2021 (File No. 001-35107)).

Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement with Scott Kleinman, dated as of December 1, 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.43 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2021 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.31 Letter Agreement with James Zelter, dated December 1, 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.44 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2021 (File No. 001-35107)).

Letter Agreement with James Zelter, dated December 1, 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.44 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2021 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.32 Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement with James Zelter, dated as of December 1, 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.45 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2021 (File No. 001-35107)).

Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement with James Zelter, dated as of December 1, 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.45 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2021 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.33 Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement with James Zelter, dated as of December 1, 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.46 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2021 (File No. 001-35107)).

Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement with James Zelter, dated as of December 1, 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.46 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2021 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.34 Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement with James Zelter, dated as of December 1, 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.47 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2021 (File No. 001-35107)).

Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement with James Zelter, dated as of December 1, 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.47 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2021 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.35 Roll-Up Agreement with Scott Kleinman, dated as of July 13, 2007 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.44 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2018 (File No. 001-35107)).

Roll-Up Agreement with Scott Kleinman, dated as of July 13, 2007 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.44 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2018 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.36 Amendment to Roll-Up Agreement with Scott Kleinman, dated July 29, 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2020 (File No. 001-35107)).

Amendment to Roll-Up Agreement with Scott Kleinman, dated July 29, 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2020 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.37 Amendment to Roll-Up Agreement with Scott Kleinman, dated as of January 1, 2022 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.51 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2021 (File No. 001-35107)).

Amendment to Roll-Up Agreement with Scott Kleinman, dated as of January 1, 2022 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.51 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2021 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.38 Roll-Up Agreement with James Zelter, dated as of July 13, 2007 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.30 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-150141)).

Roll-Up Agreement with James Zelter, dated as of July 13, 2007 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.30 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-150141)).

+10.39 Amendment to Roll-Up Agreement with James Zelter, dated July 29, 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2020 (File No. 001-35107)).

Amendment to Roll-Up Agreement with James Zelter, dated July 29, 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2020 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.40 Amendment to Roll-Up Agreement with James Zelter, dated as of January 1, 2022 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.54 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2021 (File No. 001-35107)).

Amendment to Roll-Up Agreement with James Zelter, dated as of January 1, 2022 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.54 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2021 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.41 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of June 16, 2022, between Athene Holding Ltd. and James R. Belardi (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 9, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of June 16, 2022, between Athene Holding Ltd. and James R. Belardi (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 9, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

+10.42 Third Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo Advisors VII, L.P. dated as of July 1, 2008 and effective as of August 30, 2007 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.42 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2013 (File No. 001-35107)).

Third Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo Advisors VII, L.P. dated as of July 1, 2008 and effective as of August 30, 2007 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.42 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2013 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.43 Third Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo Credit Opportunity Advisors I, L.P., dated January 12, 2011 and made effective as of July 14, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.43 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2013 (File No. 001-35107)).

Third Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo Credit Opportunity Advisors I, L.P., dated January 12, 2011 and made effective as of July 14, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.43 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2013 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.44 Third Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo Credit Opportunity Advisors II, L.P., dated January 12, 2011 and made effective as of July 14, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.44 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2013 (File No. 001-35107)).

Third Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo Credit Opportunity Advisors II, L.P., dated January 12, 2011 and made effective as of July 14, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.44 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2013 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.45 Form of Letter Agreement under the Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo Advisors VIII, L.P. effective as of January 1, 2014 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.56 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2014 (File No. 001-35107)).

Form of Letter Agreement under the Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo Advisors VIII, L.P. effective as of January 1, 2014 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.56 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2014 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.46 Form of Award Letter under the Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo Advisors VIII, L.P. effective as of January 1, 2014 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.57 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2014 (File No. 001-35107)).

Form of Award Letter under the Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo Advisors VIII, L.P. effective as of January 1, 2014 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.57 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2014 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.47 Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Apollo Global Carry Pool Aggregator, L.P., dated May 4, 2017 and effective as of July 1, 2016 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.61 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2017 (File No. 001-35107)).

Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Apollo Global Carry Pool Aggregator, L.P., dated May 4, 2017 and effective as of July 1, 2016 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.61 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2017 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.48 Form of Award Agreement for Apollo Global Carry Pool Aggregator, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.62 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2017 (File No. 001-35107)).

Form of Award Agreement for Apollo Global Carry Pool Aggregator, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.62 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2017 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.49 Form of Letter Agreement under the Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo ANRP Advisors II, L.P. dated March 2, 2017 and effective as of August 21, 2015 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.63 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2017 (File No. 001-35107)).

Form of Letter Agreement under the Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo ANRP Advisors II, L.P. dated March 2, 2017 and effective as of August 21, 2015 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.63 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2017 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.50 Form of Award Letter under the Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo ANRP Advisors II, L.P. dated March 2, 2017 and effective as of August 21, 2015 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.64 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2017 (File No. 001-35107)).

Form of Award Letter under the Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo ANRP Advisors II, L.P. dated March 2, 2017 and effective as of August 21, 2015 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.64 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2017 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.51 Amended and Restated Agreement of Exempted Limited Partnership of Apollo Global Carry Pool Aggregator II, L.P., dated June 26, 2018 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.68 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2018 (File No. 001-35107)).

Amended and Restated Agreement of Exempted Limited Partnership of Apollo Global Carry Pool Aggregator II, L.P., dated June 26, 2018 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.68 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2018 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.52 Form of Award Agreement for Apollo Global Carry Pool Aggregator II, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.69 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2018 (File No. 001-35107)).

Form of Award Agreement for Apollo Global Carry Pool Aggregator II, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.69 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2018 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.53 Fourth Amended and Restated Exempted Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo Advisors IX, L.P., dated August 8, 2018 and effective as of June 29, 2018 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.70 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2018 (File No. 001-35107)).

Fourth Amended and Restated Exempted Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo Advisors IX, L.P., dated August 8, 2018 and effective as of June 29, 2018 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.70 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2018 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.54 Form of Award Letter for Apollo Advisors IX, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.71 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2018 (File No. 001-35107)).

Form of Award Letter for Apollo Advisors IX, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.71 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2018 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.55 Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo Special Situations Advisors, L.P., dated as of February 15, 2017 and effective as of March 18, 2016 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.80 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2018 (File No. 001-35107).

Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo Special Situations Advisors, L.P., dated as of February 15, 2017 and effective as of March 18, 2016 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.80 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2018 (File No. 001-35107).

+10.56 Amended and Restated Agreement of Exempted Limited Partnership of Apollo Global Carry Pool Aggregator III, L.P., dated June 29, 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2020 (File No. 001-35107)).

Amended and Restated Agreement of Exempted Limited Partnership of Apollo Global Carry Pool Aggregator III, L.P., dated June 29, 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2020 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.57 Form of Award Agreement for Apollo Global Carry Pool Aggregator III, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2020 (File No. 001-35107)).

Form of Award Agreement for Apollo Global Carry Pool Aggregator III, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2020 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.58 Amended and Restated Exempted Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo Infra Equity Advisors (IH UT), L.P., dated as of February 25, 2020 and effective as of January 1, 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.105 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2020 (File No. 001-35107)).

Amended and Restated Exempted Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo Infra Equity Advisors (IH UT), L.P., dated as of February 25, 2020 and effective as of January 1, 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.105 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2020 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.59 Amended and Restated Exempted Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo Infra Equity Advisors (APO DC UT), L.P., dated as of February 25, 2020 and effective as of January 1, 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.106 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2020 (File No. 001-35107)).

Amended and Restated Exempted Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo Infra Equity Advisors (APO DC UT), L.P., dated as of February 25, 2020 and effective as of January 1, 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.106 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2020 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.60 Form of Award Agreement for Apollo Infra Equity Advisors (APO DC UT), L.P. and Apollo Infra Equity Advisors (IH UT), L.P (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.107 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2020 (File No. 001-35107)).

Form of Award Agreement for Apollo Infra Equity Advisors (APO DC UT), L.P. and Apollo Infra Equity Advisors (IH UT), L.P (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.107 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2020 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.61 Amended and Restated Exempted Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo Global Carry Pool Aggregator IV, L.P., dated January 28, 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2021 (File No. 001-35107)).

Amended and Restated Exempted Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo Global Carry Pool Aggregator IV, L.P., dated January 28, 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2021 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.62 Form of Award Agreement for Apollo Global Carry Pool Aggregator IV, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2021 (File No. 001-35107)).

Form of Award Agreement for Apollo Global Carry Pool Aggregator IV, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2021 (File No. 001-35107)).

†+10.63 Apollo Supplemental Partner Program Plan Document (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2022 (File No. 001-35107)).

Apollo Supplemental Partner Program Plan Document (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2022 (File No. 001-35107)).

†+10.64 Form of Apollo Supplemental Partner Program Award Letter (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2022 (File No. 001-35107)).

Form of Apollo Supplemental Partner Program Award Letter (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2022 (File No. 001-35107)).

+10.65 Form of Apollo Supplemental Partner Program Award Letter (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2025 (File No. 001-41197)).

Form of Apollo Supplemental Partner Program Award Letter (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2025 (File No. 001-41197)).

+10.66 Form of ADIP (Athene) Carry Plan, L.P. Award Letter (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Athene Holding Ltd.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2020 (File No. 001-37963)).

Form of ADIP (Athene) Carry Plan, L.P. Award Letter (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Athene Holding Ltd.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2020 (File No. 001-37963)).

10.67 Form of Indemnification Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.25 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

Form of Indemnification Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.25 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

10.68 Form of Independent Director Engagement Letter (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

Form of Independent Director Engagement Letter (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

10.69 Form of Independent Director Engagement Letter (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2025 (File No. 001-41197)).

Form of Independent Director Engagement Letter (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2025 (File No. 001-41197)).

10.70 Form of Lead Independent Director Engagement Letter (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2025 (File No. 001-41197)).

Form of Lead Independent Director Engagement Letter (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2025 (File No. 001-41197)).

10.71 Stockholders Agreement, dated as of January 1, 2022, among Apollo Global Management, Inc., Leon D. Black, Marc J. Rowan, Joshua J. Harris and the other persons party thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.27 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

Stockholders Agreement, dated as of January 1, 2022, among Apollo Global Management, Inc., Leon D. Black, Marc J. Rowan, Joshua J. Harris and the other persons party thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.27 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

10.72 Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of January 1, 2022, among Apollo Global Management, Inc., Scott M. Kleinman, James C. Zelter and the other persons party thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.28 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of January 1, 2022, among Apollo Global Management, Inc., Scott M. Kleinman, James C. Zelter and the other persons party thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.28 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

10.73 Exchange Implementation Agreement, dated December 31, 2021, by and among Apollo Global Management, Inc. and certain other persons and certain holders of Apollo Operating Group (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.106 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2021 filed on February 25, 2022 (File No. 001-35107)).

Exchange Implementation Agreement, dated December 31, 2021, by and among Apollo Global Management, Inc. and certain other persons and certain holders of Apollo Operating Group (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.106 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2021 filed on February 25, 2022 (File No. 001-35107)).

10.74 Amended and Restated Tax Receivable Agreement, dated as of May 6, 2013, by and among APO Corp., Apollo Principal Holdings II, L.P., Apollo Principal Holdings IV, L.P., Apollo Principal Holdings VI, Apollo Principal Holdings VIII, L.P., AMH Holdings (Cayman), L.P. and each Holder defined therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2016 (File No. 001-35107)).

Amended and Restated Tax Receivable Agreement, dated as of May 6, 2013, by and among APO Corp., Apollo Principal Holdings II, L.P., Apollo Principal Holdings IV, L.P., Apollo Principal Holdings VI, Apollo Principal Holdings VIII, L.P., AMH Holdings (Cayman), L.P. and each Holder defined therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2016 (File No. 001-35107)).

10.75 Amendment to Amended and Restated Tax Receivable Agreement, dated as of September 5, 2019, by and among APO Corp., Apollo Principal Holdings II, L.P., Apollo Principal Holdings IV, L.P., Apollo Principal Holdings VI, L.P. Apollo Principal Holdings VIII, L.P., AMH Holdings (Cayman), L.P. and each Holder defined therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 8-K filed on September 5, 2019 (File No. 001-35107)).

Amendment to Amended and Restated Tax Receivable Agreement, dated as of September 5, 2019, by and among APO Corp., Apollo Principal Holdings II, L.P., Apollo Principal Holdings IV, L.P., Apollo Principal Holdings VI, L.P. Apollo Principal Holdings VIII, L.P., AMH Holdings (Cayman), L.P. and each Holder defined therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to Apollo Asset Management, Inc.’s Form 8-K filed on September 5, 2019 (File No. 001-35107)).

10.76 Waiver to Amended and Restated Tax Receivable Agreement, dated May 2, 2022 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.32 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

Waiver to Amended and Restated Tax Receivable Agreement, dated May 2, 2022 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.32 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

†10.77 Revolving Credit Facility, among ACMP Holdings, LLC, Apollo Capital Markets Management, L.P., Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, Mizuho Bank Ltd. and the lenders from time to time party thereto, dated as of April 1, 2022 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 7, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

Revolving Credit Facility, among ACMP Holdings, LLC, Apollo Capital Markets Management, L.P., Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, Mizuho Bank Ltd. and the lenders from time to time party thereto, dated as of April 1, 2022 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 7, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

10.78 Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Exempted Limited Partnership of AISG Holdings LP, dated June 16, 2022 and effective as of January 1, 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Exempted Limited Partnership of AISG Holdings LP, dated June 16, 2022 and effective as of January 1, 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2022 (File No. 001-41197)).

+10.79 Letter Agreement with Whitney Chatterjee, dated February 20, 2023 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant ’ s Form 10-Q for the period ended Septem ber 30, 2025 (File No. 001-41197)) .

Letter Agreement with Whitney Chatterjee, dated February 20, 2023 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant ’ s Form 10-Q for the period ended Septem ber 30, 2025 (File No. 001-41197)) .

†+10.80 Form of Apollo Carry Award (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2023 (File No. 001-41197)).

Form of Apollo Carry Award (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2023 (File No. 001-41197)).

†+10.81 Accord+ Notional Bonus Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2023 (File No. 001-41197)).

Accord+ Notional Bonus Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2023 (File No. 001-41197)).

+10.82 Amended and Restated Exempted Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo EPF Advisors IV, L.P., dated March 27, 2023 and effective as of December 31, 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2023 (File No. 001-41197)).

Amended and Restated Exempted Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo EPF Advisors IV, L.P., dated March 27, 2023 and effective as of December 31, 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2023 (File No. 001-41197)).

+10.83 Amended and Restated Exempted Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo Infrastructure Opportunities Advisors II, L.P., dated February 10, 2022 and effective as of July 10, 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2023 (File No. 001-41197)).

Amended and Restated Exempted Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo Infrastructure Opportunities Advisors II, L.P., dated February 10, 2022 and effective as of July 10, 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2023 (File No. 001-41197)).

+10.84 Amended and Restated Exempted Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo Hybrid Value Advisors II, L.P., dated March 31, 2022 and effective as of September 29, 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2023 (File No. 001-41197)).

Amended and Restated Exempted Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo Hybrid Value Advisors II, L.P., dated March 31, 2022 and effective as of September 29, 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2023 (File No. 001-41197)).

†+10.85 Form of Apollo Carry Award (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2024 (File No. 001-41197)).

Form of Apollo Carry Award (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2024 (File No. 001-41197)).

+10.86 Amended and Restated Exempted Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo Advisors X, L.P., dated as of August 18, 2023 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2024 (File No. 001-41197)).

Amended and Restated Exempted Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo Advisors X, L.P., dated as of August 18, 2023 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2024 (File No. 001-41197)).

+10.87 Form of Award Letter for Apollo Advisors X, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2024 (File No. 001-41197)).

Form of Award Letter for Apollo Advisors X, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2024 (File No. 001-41197)).

+10.88 Second Amended and Restated Exempted Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo ADIP Advisors, L.P., dated as of June 12, 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2024 (File No. 001-41197)).

Second Amended and Restated Exempted Limited Partnership Agreement of Apollo ADIP Advisors, L.P., dated as of June 12, 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant’s Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2024 (File No. 001-41197)).

*+10.89 Form of RSU / PSU Deferral Election.

*21.1 Subsidiaries of Apollo Global Management, Inc.

Subsidiaries of Apollo Global Management, Inc.

*31.1 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a).

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a).

*31.2 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a).

Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a).

*32.1 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (furnished herewith).

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (furnished herewith).

*32.2 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (furnished herewith).

Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (furnished herewith).

97.1 Apollo Global Management, Inc. Statutory Recoupment Policy (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 97.1 to the Registrant’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2023 (File No. 001-41197).

Apollo Global Management, Inc. Statutory Recoupment Policy (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 97.1 to the Registrant’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2023 (File No. 001-41197).

101 Interactive data files pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T, formatted in Inline XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language): (i) the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition as of December 31, 2025 and December 31, 2024, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2025, 2024 and 2023, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the years ended December 31, 2025, 2024 and 2023, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Equity for the years ended December 31, 2025, 2024 and 2023, (v) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2025, 2024 and 2023, and (vi) the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Interactive data files pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T, formatted in Inline XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language): (i) the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition as of December 31, 2025 and December 31, 2024, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2025, 2024 and 2023, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the years ended December 31, 2025, 2024 and 2023, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Equity for the years ended December 31, 2025, 2024 and 2023, (v) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2025, 2024 and 2023, and (vi) the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

104 Cover Page Interactive Data File (formatted in Inline XBRL in Exhibit 101).

Cover Page Interactive Data File (formatted in Inline XBRL in Exhibit 101).

+ Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

† Certain information contained in this exhibit has been omitted because it is not material and is the type that the registrant treats as private or confidential.

Certain information contained in this exhibit has been omitted because it is not material and is the type that the registrant treats as private or confidential.

Date: February 25, 2026 By: /s/ Martin Kelly

Title: Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer and authorized signatory)

Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer and authorized signatory)

/s/ Marc Rowan Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director February 25, 2026

Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director

Marc Rowan (principal executive officer)

/s/ Martin Kelly Chief Financial Officer February 25, 2026

Martin Kelly (principal financial officer)

/s/ Kristy Kinahan Chief Accounting Officer February 25, 2026

Kristy Kinahan (principal accounting officer)

/s/ James Belardi Director February 25, 2026

/s/ Scott Kleinman Director February 25, 2026

/s/ James Zelter Director February 25, 2026

/s/ Gary Cohn Lead Independent Director February 25, 2026

/s/ Marc Beilinson Director February 25, 2026

/s/ Jessica Bibliowicz Director February 25, 2026

/s/ Kerry Murphy Healey Director February 25, 2026

/s/ Mitra Hormozi Director February 25, 2026

/s/ Pamela Joyner Director February 25, 2026

/s/ Brian Leach Director February 25, 2026

/s/ David Simon Director February 25, 2026

/s/ Lynn Swann Director February 25, 2026

/s/ Patrick Toomey Director February 25, 2026