Source ID: PS-VD-052
Firm: Industry-wide
Title: Preqin Global Report — Alternatives
Document Type: industry_report
Bias Tag: industry-report
Seed URL: https://www.preqin.com/global-report
Loaded URL: https://www.preqin.com/global-report
Download a complimentary summary of the 2026 Global Reports

Get a snapshot of the most important trends shaping private markets in 2026. The free summary brings together key findings from all five reports – covering private equity, private credit, venture capital, real estate, and infrastructure – so you can quickly assess the outlooks on fundraising, investor sentiment, and performance.

Private equity appears to be on a cautious path to recovery in 2026, with signs of an improving environment for large-ticket deal-making

The exit environment for venture capital has improved in 2025 but GPs remain under pressure to increase pace of distributions

Strategic evolution for private credit in 2025 sets the stage for an anticipated fundraising recovery in 2026

Real estate fundraising appears more positive in 2025, led by strong interest in debt-focused and opportunistic funds

Infrastructure fundraising grew in 2025, while softer deal activity and a drop in capital calls raise questions about the deal-making environment going into 2026

The 2026 Preqin Global Reports are brought to life by Preqin’s team of experienced professionals who combine their expertise with our proprietary data to deliver in-depth analysis of private markets. Browse through to see other reports written by these expert analysts, or request a demo today to learn more about how the insights behind this research could support your private markets activities.

Register now for the 2026 Preqin Global Reports webinar series

Preqin, a part of BlackRock, presents the ‘Global Report 2026 Webinar Series’, providing you with an exclusive opportunity to hear the latest industry forecasts and analysis from our experts, powered by Preqin data. The webinars will cover Private Equity & Venture Capital, Real Assets, and Private Credit.

Register for one or all sessions in the Preqin Global Reports 2026 Webinar Series to get detailed insights into private markets risks and opportunities across geographies, strategies, and sectors. Join our experts as they analyze key data behind the Global Reports and industry trends in 2026.

Access comprehensive private capital and hedge fund datasets and analytics tools.

Stay on top of the latest developments in private markets with exclusive industry reports, publications, and statistics.

Let us know how we can help – we’re here to answer any questions you might have.

Download a complimentary summary of the 2026 Global Reports Get a snapshot of the most important trends shaping private markets in 2026. The free summary brings together key findings from all five reports – covering private equity, private credit, venture capital, real estate, and infrastructure – so you can quickly assess the outlooks on fundraising, investor sentiment, and performance. Download my free report

Private credit Strategic evolution for private credit in 2025 sets the stage for an anticipated fundraising recovery in 2026 Read more

Infrastructure Infrastructure fundraising grew in 2025, while softer deal activity and a drop in capital calls raise questions about the deal-making environment going into 2026 Read more

Insights Stay on top of the latest developments in private markets with exclusive industry reports, publications, and statistics. Create a free account

Real estate Real estate fundraising appears more positive in 2025, led by strong interest in debt-focused and opportunistic funds Read more

Insights from our expert team The 2026 Preqin Global Reports are brought to life by Preqin’s team of experienced professionals who combine their expertise with our proprietary data to deliver in-depth analysis of private markets. Browse through to see other reports written by these expert analysts, or request a demo today to learn more about how the insights behind this research could support your private markets activities. Request a demo of Insights+