Source ID: PS-VD-029
Firm: EQT
Title: EQT Annual and Sustainability Report 2024
Document Type: annual_report
Bias Tag: company-produced
Seed URL: https://eqtgroup.com/news/eqt-ab-publishes-annual-and-sustainability-report-for-2024-2025-03-13
Loaded URL: https://eqtgroup.com/news/eqt-ab-publishes-annual-and-sustainability-report-for-2024-2025-03-13
EQT AB publishes Annual & Sustainability Report for 2024

EQT AB (publ) has today published its Annual and Sustainability Report (“the Report”) for 2024. The Report is available at www.eqtgroup.com/shareholders . The report explores EQT’s journey over the three decades since its founding, focused on the past five years as a listed company, and highlights EQT’s long-term growth strategy.

Since its IPO in 2019, EQT has expanded from six investment strategies to eighteen, now having a scaled global platform. In 2024, EQT successfully navigated a dynamic private markets landscape, closing major fundraises – including EQT X, the largest private equity fundraise globally in 2024 1 – and delivering one of its most active investment years to date. As Per Franzén prepares to step into the role of CEO, EQT is well-positioned to continue future-proofing its portfolio, drive long-term value creation, and ultimately deliver for its clients.

Conni Jonsson, Founder and Chairperson, said: “Since EQT went public in 2019, we have built a truly global platform, with local teams in markets representing more than 80 percent of the world’s GDP. Having a strong presence in all relevant markets gives us insights into innovations in almost every corner of the globe. It also allows us to have local insights on geopolitical developments, and we can seize opportunities that arise with long-term demographic trends.”

Christian Sinding, outgoing CEO and Managing Partner, added: “The world does not stand still and nor do we. At EQT, we believe that by executing on our core strategic priorities, we will be able to deliver superior and sustainable returns for our clients. We are confident that with the support of our world-class team, an unwavering focus on future-proofing and performance, and the trust of our clients, EQT is positioned for continued success. ”

EQT AB’s Annual Shareholders’ Meeting is scheduled to take place on 27 May 2025 at 15.00 CEST and notice to the meeting will be given in due course.

This is information that EQT AB (publ) is obliged to make public pursuant to the Securities Markets Act. The information was submitted for publication, through the agency of the contact persons set out below, at 08:00 CET on 13 March 2025.

Olof Svensson, Head of Shareholder Relations, +46 72 989 09 15 EQT Press Office, [email protected] , +46 8 506 55 334

EQT AB Corporate Governance Report 2024.pdf

EQT AB Annual and Sustainability Report 2024.pdf

About EQT EQT is a purpose-driven global investment organization focused on active ownership strategies. With a Nordic heritage and a global mindset, EQT has a track record of almost three decades of developing companies across multiple geographies, sectors and strategies. EQT has investment strategies covering all phases of a business’ development, from start-up to maturity. EQT has EUR ‌​​269 billion in total assets under management (EUR ‌​​‌136 billion in fee-generating assets under management), within two business segments – Private Capital and Real Assets.

With its roots in the Wallenberg family’s entrepreneurial mindset and philosophy of long-term ownership, EQT is guided by a set of strong values and a distinct corporate culture. EQT manages and advises funds and vehicles that invest across the world with the mission to future-proof companies, generate attractive returns and make a positive impact with everything EQT does.

The EQT AB Group comprises EQT AB (publ) and its direct and indirect subsidiaries, which include general partners and fund managers of EQT funds as well as entities advising EQT funds. EQT has offices in more than 25 countries across Europe, Asia and the Americas and has more than 1,900 employees.

More info: www.eqtgroup.com Follow EQT on LinkedIn , X , YouTube and Instagram

Add your email address below to sign up for our EQT newsletters.