Source ID: PS-VD-053
Firm: Industry-wide
Title: Preqin Future of Alternatives 2029
Document Type: industry_report
Bias Tag: industry-report
Seed URL: https://www.preqin.com/future
Loaded URL: https://www.preqin.com/future
Discover the Private Markets in 2030 report

Get a preview of what's ahead for private markets

Discover the trends shaping private equity, venture capital, private credit, and infrastructure through 2030. Download a free summary of the Private Markets in 2030 report.

Watch Private Markets in 2030: A fireside chat with Mark O'Hare and Wei Li on demand

This webinar featured a fireside chat between Wei Li, Global Chief Investment Strategist, BlackRock, and Mark O’Hare, Vice Chairman at BlackRock and founder and former CEO of Preqin, along with a presentation by Paul Sinthunont, CFA, VP, Research Insights, on key findings from the Private Markets in 2030 report and what the industry can expect to see over the next five-year period.

The Private Markets in 2030 report is brought to life by Preqin’s team of experienced professionals who combine their expertise with our proprietary data to deliver unmatched analysis of private markets. Browse through to see other reports written by these expert analysts, or request a demo today to learn more about how the insights behind this research could support your private markets activities.

Access comprehensive private capital and hedge fund datasets and analytics tools.

Stay on top of the latest developments in private markets with exclusive industry reports, publications, and statistics.

Let us know how we can help – we’re here to answer any questions you might have.

Get a preview of what's ahead for private markets Discover the trends shaping private equity, venture capital, private credit, and infrastructure through 2030. Download a free summary of the Private Markets in 2030 report. Download the free summary

Insights Stay on top of the latest developments in private markets with exclusive industry reports, publications, and statistics. Create a free account